NOTE: This is a sample extract from Academic Lexis-Nexis by Dan Nguyen of
Stanford University. This file is provided for academic purposes and is not
allowed to be distributed outside of Academic Lexis-Nexis Terms and conditions.

The query was across all newspapers from June 2015 to July 2015:

    (police AND officer) OR (sheriff AND deputy) AND (fatal OR death) AND
(suspect OR victim) w/5 (armed OR unarmed)






Download Request: All Documents: 1-161
Time Of Request: Saturday, July 11, 2015  22:32:52 EST
Send To:

MEGADEAL, ACADEMIC UNIVERSE
STANFORD UNIVERSITY
LIBRARY
STANFORD, CA


Terms: (((police AND officer)OR(sheriff AND deputy)AND(fatal OR
death)AND(suspect OR victim)w/5(armed) AND (police AND officer) OR (sheriff AND
deputy) AND (fatal OR death) AND (suspect OR victim) w/5 (armed OR unarmed)) and
Date(geq(05/01/2015) and leq(07/01/2015)))


Source: Newspaper Stories, Combined Papers
Project ID:



                               1 of 161 DOCUMENTS


     Copyright 2015 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              The Washington Post

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 3362 words

HEADLINE: DISTRAUGHT people, deadly results

BYLINE: Wesley Lowery;Kimberly Kindy;Keith L. Alexander

BODY:

It was not yet 9 a.m., and Gary Page was drunk. The disabled handyman had a long
history of schizophrenia and depression and, since his wife died in February, he
had been struggling to hold his life together.

That bright Saturday morning in March, something snapped. Page, 60, slit his
wrists, grabbed a gun and climbed the stairs to his stepdaughter's place in the
Pines Apartments in Harmony, Ind. He said he wanted to die. And then he called
911.

"I want to shoot the cops," Page slurred to the dispatcher, prodding his
stepdaughter to confirm that, yes, he had a gun. "I want them to shoot me."

Minutes later, Page's death wish was granted. Two Clay County sheriff's deputies
arrived to find that he had taken a neighbor hostage. They opened fire, striking
him five times in the torso and once in the head. Page's gun later turned out to
be a starter pistol, loaded only with blanks. His threats of violence turned out
to be equally empty, the product of emotional instability and agonizing despair.

Nationwide, police have shot and killed 124 people this year who, like Page,
were in the throes of mental or emotional crisis, according to a Washington Post
analysis. The dead account for a quarter of the 462 people shot to death by
police in the first six months of 2015.

The vast majority were armed, but in most cases, the police officers who shot
them were not responding to reports of a crime. More often, the police officers
were called by relatives, neighbors or other bystanders worried that a mentally
fragile person was behaving erratically, reports show. More than 50 people were
explicitly suicidal.

More than half of the killings involved police agencies that have not provided
their officers with state-of-the-art training to deal with the mentally ill. And
in many cases, officers responded with tactics that quickly made a volatile
situation even more dangerous.

The Post analysis provides for the first time a national, real-time tally of the
shooting deaths of mentally distraught individuals at the hands of law
enforcement. Criminal-justice experts say that police are often ill equipped to
respond to such individuals - and that the encounters too often end in needless
violence.

"This a national crisis," said Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police
Executive Research Forum, an independent research organization devoted to
improving policing. "We have to get American police to rethink how they handle
encounters with the mentally ill. Training has to change."

As a debate rages over the use of deadly force by police, particularly against
minorities, The Post is tracking every fatal shooting by a police officer acting
in the line of duty in 2015. Reporters are culling news reports, public records
and other open sources on the Internet to log more than a dozen factors about
each case, including the age and race of the victim, whether the victim was
armed and the circumstances that led to the fatal encounter.

The FBI also logs fatal police shootings, but officials acknowledge that their
data is far from complete. In the past four decades, the FBI has never recorded
more than 460 fatal shootings in a single year. The Post hit that number in less
than six months.

For this article, The Post analyzed 124 killings in which the victim's mental
health appeared to play a role, either because the person expressed suicidal
intentions or because police or family members confirmed a history of mental
illness. This approach probably understates the scope of the problem, experts
said.

In many ways, this subset mirrors the overall population of police shooting
victims: They were overwhelmingly men, and more than half of them were white.
Nine in 10 were armed with some kind of weapon, and most died close to home.

But there were also important distinctions. This group was more likely to wield
a weapon less lethal than a firearm. Six had toy guns; 3 in 10 carried a blade,
such as a knife or a machete - weapons that rarely prove deadly to police
officers. According to data maintained by the FBI and other organizations, only
three officers have been killed with an edged weapon in the past decade.

Nearly a dozen of the mentally distraught people killed were military veterans,
many of them suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder as a result of their
service, according to police or family members. Another was a former California
Highway Patrol officer who had been forced into retirement after enduring a
severe beating during a traffic stop that left him suffering from depression and
PTSD.

And in 45 cases, police were called to help someone get medical treatment, or
after the person had tried and failed to get treatment on his own.

In January, for instance, Jonathan Guillory, a white 32-year-old father of two
who had worked as a military contractor in Afghanistan, was having what his
widow called a mental health emergency. He sought help at a Veterans Affairs
hospital in Arizona, his wife, Maria Garcia, told local reporters, but the busy
hospital turned him away. Jean Schaefer, a spokeswoman for the Veterans Health
Administration in Phoenix, said the hospital had no record of Guillory's visit.

Back home, Guillory dialed 911 twice and hung up. When police responded, he
pulled a gun from his waistband and said, "I bet I can outdraw you," according
to Maricopa police spokesman Ricardo Alvarado. They shot him six times.

The dead range in age from 15 to 86. At both ends of that spectrum, the victim
was male, suicidal and armed with a gun. On average, police shot and killed
someone who was in mental crisis every 36 hours in the first six months of this
year. On April 25, three mentally ill men were gunned down within 10 hours.

That afternoon, David Felix, a 24-year-old black man with schizophrenia, was
killed by police in the New York apartment building where he lived with other
men undergoing treatment for mental health problems, according to police
reports. Police said he struck two officers with a heavy police radio after they
tried to serve him with a warrant for allegedly punching a friend in the face
and stealing her purse.

Two hours later, sheriff's deputies in Clermont, Fla., fatally shot Daniel
Davis, a 58-year-old white man who had recently been released from a mental
health facility, according to police reports. Police say he threatened his
stepfather and then a deputy with a hunting knife.

And shortly before midnight, police in Victoria, Tex., shot Brandon Lawrence, a
25-year-old white man, a father of two toddlers and an Afghanistan war veteran
who suffered from PTSD. Police officers said Lawrence approached them in an
"aggressive manner" with a two-foot-long machete. They said they ordered him to
drop it more than 30 times.

Lawrence's wife and another witness have disputed aspects of that account,
saying that Lawrence, while armed, was not advancing and was obviously not in
his right mind. Convinced someone was coming to kill him, Lawrence repeatedly
asked police officers who they were and what they wanted, his wife said.

"He was clearly confused . . . but they didn't try to talk to him," said
Lawrence's father, Bryon Lawrence, who works as an Illinois state prison guard.

"Everyone I work with is a convicted felon; I can't just go up to them and shoot
them," Bryon Lawrence said. "My boy is 25 years old, working 50 hours a week,
paying taxes. He was in his own home when they showed up.

"Within six minutes, they murdered him."

Victoria police declined to comment, citing the ongoing investigation.

Police increasingly acknowledge that they have few effective tools for handling
the mentally ill. In interviews, current and former police chiefs said that
without large-scale police retraining, as well as a nationwide increase in
mental health services, these deadly encounters will continue.

Severe budget cuts for psychiatric services - by as much as 30 percent in some
states in recent years - have created a vacuum that local police are
increasingly asked to fill, they said.

"We as a society need to put more money and funding into treating the mentally
ill. We need to work with these people . . . before they end in tragedy," said
Mike Carter, the police chief in Sand Springs, Okla., where officers in April
shot and killed a 66-year-old white Vietnam veteran with PTSD. The man, Donald
Allen, grew agitated after officers asked him to stop firing a gun in his back
yard.

So far, police departments generally have not risen to the challenge. Although
new recruits typically spend nearly 60 hours learning to handle a gun, according
to a recent survey by the Police Executive Research Forum, they receive only
eight hours of training to de-escalate tense situations and eight hours learning
strategies for handling the mentally ill.

Otherwise, police are taught to employ tactics that tend to be counterproductive
in such encounters, experts said. For example, most officers are trained to
seize control when dealing with an armed suspect, often through stern, shouted
commands.

But yelling and pointing guns is "like pouring gasoline on a fire when you do
that with the mentally ill," said Ron Honberg, policy director with the National
Alliance on Mental Illness.

Sandy Jo MacArthur is an assistant chief who oversees "mental response teams"
for the Los Angeles Police Department, a program considered to be a national
model. MacArthur said her officers are trained to embrace tactics that may seem
counterintuitive. Instead of rushing to take someone into custody, they try to
slow things down and persuade the person to come with them. When possible, a
psychologist or psychiatrist is on the scene.

The mentally ill "do not process what is happening like a normal criminal,"
MacArthur said. "There's a lot of white noise in their head."

On the day he died in April, Daniel Covarrubias was taking powerful painkillers
for a broken collarbone, hadn't eaten for days and was hallucinating. The
37-year-old Native American and Latino had gone to St. Clare Hospital near
Tacoma, Wash., "to get the cameras out of his eyes," according to Ben Barcus,
attorney for the Covarrubias family.

Covarrubias, who had a history of depression and drug addiction, was treated for
"substance/medication induced psychotic disorder," according to medical records
obtained by the police. Five hours later, he was released "in stable condition,"
according to hospital spokesman Scott Thompson.

As Covarrubias walked home, police sirens began blaring behind him. For reasons
that are unclear, Covarrubias dashed into Pinnacle Lumber and Plywood, scaled a
25-foot-tall stack of wood and crouched to hide, police records show.

His mother, Marilyn Covarrubias, speculates that he may have believed the police
were after him. "I think he thought the sirens were for him," she said.

Alarmed lumberyard employees thought so, too, and called police to report a man
hiding on the property. Within minutes, two Lakewood, Wash., police officers
were standing at the base of the lumber stack, shouting up at Covarrubias to
"show your hands."

What happened next is in dispute. Lakewood Police Chief Mike Zaro has said
Covarrubias "raised up with a dark object in his hand and pointed it at the
officers in a manner that was consistent with pointing a firearm." Barcus said
lumberyard employees "didn't see pointing." Managers at Pinnacle Lumber declined
to comment.

In any case, police opened fire, hitting Covarrubias five times, including once
in the head, according to Barcus. The dark object in his hand turned out to be a
cellphone.

Barcus criticized the officers' failure "to de-escalate this situation."

"They arrived at the lumberyard, and six minutes later Covarrubias was dead,"
Barcus said. "It doesn't appear they know how to deal with the mentally ill."

Lakewood police spokesman Chris Lawler said the department works with mental
health experts and that both officers involved in the shooting had received
training to handle such encounters.

He declined to comment further, saying the investigation was still pending.

One of the youngest shooting victims was Kristiana Coignard, a 17-year-old white
girl who walked out of the darkness one evening in January and into the empty
lobby of a Longview, Tex., police station. In her waistband, she had a knife.
And on her palm, she had written the words "I have a gun."

Coignard did not have a gun, nor any clear reason for going to the station that
night. Her case underscores a central difficulty for police officers who
encounter a mentally ill person: It can be almost impossible to determine
intent, or judge capacity to inflict harm.

Coignard appeared to pose a threat, but unlike someone committing a robbery, her
intentions were obscure.

Since the age of 12, Coignard had displayed signs of mental illness; she
regularly took medication for depression and bipolar disorder, according to her
father, Erik Coignard. She dropped out of high school a year before graduation,
but she later obtained a GED and had plans to attend college.

"She wanted to be a counselor in the mental health area because she said she
felt that they failed her," said her stepmother, Elizabeth Coignard.

On the day she died, Kristiana Coignard met with the counselor she had seen for
years. She entered the police station shortly before 6:30 p.m.

In a video released by Longview police, Coignard at first seems hesitant. She
wanders in, checks her mobile phone, then approaches a phone on the far wall
that connects to dispatch. After a minute or so, she picks up the receiver and
asks to speak to an officer.

An officer arrives and addresses Coignard, who appears to show him her palm. The
officer struggles with the teen, forcing her into a chair, then down to the
ground. She reaches for the knife, and the officer draws his gun.

As two more officers arrive, Coignard stands and charges at the first officer,
who opens fire. Coignard falls to the floor, struck four times.

As colleagues comfort the officer, paramedics arrive, perform CPR on Coignard
and carry her body away on a stretcher.

Longview Police Chief Don Dingler has defended the officers' actions. The video
shows "time was a factor," Dingler told reporters. "There was no time for the
officers to use other means."

Coignard's parents strongly disagree. Though they are baffled by their
daughter's actions that day - was it a suicide attempt? - they don't understand
why three officers couldn't subdue their slight teenage daughter without
resorting to deadly force.

Whatever her motives, "she should still be here," Erik Coignard said. "She was
asking for help, and she was failed when that officer failed to take control of
the situation. . . . This shouldn't have ended this way."

Mental health experts say most police departments need to quadruple the amount
of training that recruits receive for dealing with the mentally ill, requiring
as much time in the crisis-intervention classroom as police currently spend on
the shooting range. But training is no panacea, experts caution.

The mentally ill are unpredictable. Moreover, police often have no way of
knowing when they are dealing with a mentally ill person. Officers are routinely
dispatched with information that is incomplete or wrong. And in a handful of
cases this year, police were prodded to shoot someone who wanted to die.

That was the case with Matthew Hoffman, a 32-year-old white man who had long
struggled with mental illness, according to family members. After breaking up
with his girlfriend, Hoffman walked up to San Francisco police officers in
January outside a police station in the bustling Mission District. He pulled a
gun from his waistband, pointed it at the officers and advanced in silence.

The startled officers fired 10 shots, three of which struck Hoffman. They later
discovered that his weapon was a BB gun. And they found a note on his mobile
phone, addressed to the officers who shot him.

"You did nothing wrong," it said. "You ended the life of a man who was too much
of a coward to do it himself."

Grace Gatpandan, San Francisco Police Department spokeswoman, said the
department offers crisis-intervention training. But those classes are designed
primarily to teach officers to handle someone threatening to jump off a bridge,
not someone pointing a gun in a crowded tourist area.

"When officers are faced with a deadly situation, when there is a gun pointed at
a cop, there is no time to go into mental health measures," Gatpandan said.
"There was nothing we could have done. This is one of those tragedies."

In the region around Harmony, Ind., few local police agencies have the money for
crisis-intervention training, said attorney Craig McKee, who represents the Clay
County Sheriff's Office. The deputies who responded to Gary Page's call had not
received such training, he said.

"They need help from professionals to prepare them for this," McKee said.
"Society is not necessarily handling mental health issues well, so the number of
encounters like this is escalating."

But Clay County Sheriff Paul Harden said he is not sure any amount of training
would have helped his deputies that day.

"No officer I know wants to be involved in an incident like this," Harden said
in a written statement. "Even when I am confident that we handled the situation
the right way, as I do here, it can't help but shake people."

Family members still wipe away tears when discussing Page's death. But his
sister-in-law, Nyla Young, said they do not blame police.

"I pray every night for the officer who had to make that decision, because they
didn't go to work that day and want to have to make that decision," Young said.
"Gary made them make that decision. Gary wanted to die. And Gary got what he
wanted that day."

Page, who was white, married Young's sister Hester in 1997, and the two were
inseparable, she said. When Hester got sick about six years ago, Page became her
primary caregiver. He had stopped working after securing disability payments for
a back injury. So he was able to take her to doctor's appointments, bathe and
dress her, and carry her from their bed to their living room to watch TV.

In February, Hester slipped into a coma  and died. Her death crushed Page, Young
said. He had vowed to keep her alive and had devoted years to that mission. Now,
he was alone.

A week before the shooting, Page called Young and asked her to pick up her
sister's ashes, a move she now regrets.

"That was probably the final straw," Young said. "He wasn't taking care of her
ashes any longer, so he had nothing left to live for."

Page lived in the Pines Apartments, downstairs from his stepdaughter. With
police on the way, a neighbor unaware of the unfolding drama emerged from her
apartment and asked Page to quiet down, according to a detailed account of the
shooting prepared by a local prosecutor, who cleared the deputies of wrongdoing.
Page took the woman hostage and waited for police.

Three deputies soon arrived. One approached through the front door and ordered
Page to drop his weapon. The enraged man continued to scream at his hostage.
Then Page spotted two more deputies approaching through the back door.

"Don't do it. . . . I'll shoot!" he shouted and raised his gun.

Brian Helmer, who had been with the sheriff's department for less than two
years, fired twice. The deputy who had come in through the front, Joshua Clarke,
heard the gunfire and shot six times more.

As Page lay bleeding, Helmer and Clarke quickly transitioned into rescue mode.
In a scene captured by a police body camera, the officers secured Page's weapon,
realizing for the first time that it was not loaded with real bullets. They tore
off his sweatpants and used them to stanch the blood pouring from a wound in his
chest.

When Page stopped breathing, the officers performed CPR. A bystander urged them
to let Page die, according to the prosecutor's report. Instead, the officers
asked for Page's first name and spoke to him as they pumped his chest.

Moments later, paramedics arrived. In the video's final seconds, Helmer walked
away from Page's body, breathing heavily and sobbing. Then the video ends.

Gary Page was dead.

wesley.lowery@washpost.com

kimberly.kindy@washpost.com

keith.alexander@washpost.com

Julie Tate, Jennifer Jenkins and Steven Rich contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS
(90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); DEPRESSION (78%); SHERIFFS
(74%); STEPPARENTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015


                               2 of 161 DOCUMENTS


     Copyright 2015 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              The Washington Post

                              May 31, 2015 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2890 words

HEADLINE: In 5 months, police fatally shoot 385

BYLINE: Kimberly Kindy;and reported by Julie Tate;Jennifer Jenkins;Steven
Rich;Keith L. Alexander;Wesley Lowery

BODY:

In an alley in Denver, police gunned down a 17-year-old girl joyriding in a
stolen car. In the backwoods of North Carolina, police opened fire on a
gun-wielding moonshiner. And in a high-rise apartment in Birmingham, Ala.,
police shot an elderly man after his son asked them to make sure he was okay.
Douglas Harris, 77, answered the door with a gun.

The three are among at least 385 people shot and killed by police nationwide
during the first five months of this year, more than two a day, according to a
Washington Post analysis. That is more than twice the rate of fatal police
shootings tallied by the federal government over the past decade, a count that
officials concede is incomplete.

"These shootings are grossly underreported," said Jim Bueermann, a former police
chief and president of the Washington-based Police Foundation, a nonprofit
organization dedicated to improving law enforcement. "We are never going to
reduce the number of police shootings if we don't begin to accurately track this
information."

A national debate is raging about police use of deadly force, especially against
minorities. To understand why and how often these shootings occur, The
Washington Post is compiling a database of every fatal shooting by police in
2015, as well as of every officer killed by gunfire in the line of duty. The
Post looked exclusively at shootings, not killings by other means, such as stun
guns and deaths in police custody.

Using interviews, police reports, local news accounts and other sources, The
Post tracked more than a dozen details about each killing through Friday,
including the victim's race, whether the person was armed and the circumstances
that led to the fatal encounter. The result is an unprecedented examination of
these shootings, many of which began as minor incidents and suddenly escalated
into violence.

Among The Post's findings:

l About half the victims were white, half minority. But the demographics shifted
sharply among the unarmed victims, two-thirds of whom were black or Hispanic.
Overall, blacks were killed at three times the rate of whites or other
minorities when adjusting by the population of the census tracts where the
shootings occurred.

l The vast majority of victims - more than 80 percent - were armed with
potentially lethal objects, primarily guns, but also knives, machetes, revving
vehicles and, in one case, a nail gun.

l Forty-nine people had no weapon, while the guns wielded by 13 others turned
out to be toys. In all, 16 percent were either carrying a toy or were unarmed.

l The dead ranged in age from 16 to 83. Eight were children younger than 18,
including Jessie Hernandez, 17, who was shot three times by Denver police
officers as she and a carload of friends allegedly tried to run them down.

The Post analysis also sheds light on the situations that most commonly gave
rise to fatal shootings. About half of the time, police were responding to
people seeking help with domestic disturbances and other complex social
situations: A homeless person behaving erratically. A boyfriend threatening
violence. A son trying to kill himself.

Ninety-two victims - nearly a quarter of those killed - were identified by
police or family members as mentally ill.

In Miami Gardens, Fla., Catherine Daniels called 911 when she couldn't persuade
her son, Lavall Hall, a 25-year-old black man, to come in out of the cold early
one morning in February. A diagnosed schizophrenic who stood 5-foot-4 and
weighed barely 120 pounds, Hall was wearing boxer shorts and an undershirt and
waving a broomstick when police arrived. They tried to stun him with a Taser gun
and then shot him.

The other half of shootings involved non-domestic crimes, such as robberies, or
the routine duties that occupy patrol officers, such as serving warrants.

Nicholas T. Thomas, a 23-year-old black man, was killed in March when police in
Smyrna, Ga., tried to serve him with a warrant for failing to pay $170 in felony
probation fees. Thomas fled the Goodyear tire shop where he worked as a
mechanic, and police shot into his car.

Although race was a dividing line, those who died by police gunfire often had
much in common. Most were poor and had a history of run-ins with law enforcement
over mostly small-time crimes, sometimes because they were emotionally troubled.

Both things were true of Daniel Elrod, a 39-year-old white man. Elrod had been
arrested at least 16 times over the past 15 years; he was taken into protective
custody twice last year because Omaha police feared he might hurt himself.

On the day he died in February, Elrod robbed a Family Dollar store. Police said
he ran when officers arrived, jumping on top of a BMW in the parking lot and
yelling, "Shoot me, shoot me." Elrod, who was unarmed, was shot three times as
he made a "mid-air leap" to clear a barbed-wire fence, according to police
records.

Dozens of other people also died while fleeing from police, The Post analysis
shows, including a significant proportion - 20 percent - of those who were
unarmed. Running is such a provocative act that police experts say there is a
name for the injury officers inflict on suspects afterward: a "foot tax."

Police are authorized to use deadly force only when they fear for their lives or
the lives of others. So far, just three of the 385 fatal shootings have resulted
in an officer being charged with a crime - less than 1 percent.

The low rate mirrors the findings of a Post investigation in April that found
that of thousands of fatal police shootings over the past decade, only 54 had
produced criminal charges. Typically, those cases involved layers of damning
evidence challenging the officer's account. Of the cases resolved, most officers
were cleared or acquitted.

In all three 2015 cases in which charges were filed, videos emerged showing the
officers shooting a suspect during or after a foot chase:

l In South Carolina, police officer Michael Slager was charged with murder in
the death of Walter Scott, a 50-year-old black man, who ran after a traffic
stop. Slager's attorney declined to comment.

l In Oklahoma, reserve deputy Robert Bates was charged with second-degree
manslaughter 10 days after he killed Eric Harris, a 44-year-old black man.
Bates's attorney, Clark Brewster, characterized the shooting as a "legitimate
accident," noting that Bates mistakenly grabbed his gun instead of his Taser.

l And in Pennsylvania, officer Lisa Mearkle was charged with criminal homicide
six weeks after she shot and killed David Kassick, a 59-year-old white man, who
refused to pull over for a traffic stop. Her attorney did not return calls for
comment.

In many other cases, police agencies have determined that the shootings were
justified. But many law enforcement leaders are calling for greater scrutiny.

After nearly a year of protests against police brutality and with a White House
task force report calling for reforms, a dozen current and former police chiefs
and other criminal justice officials said police must begin to accept
responsibility for the carnage. They argue that a large number of the killings
examined by The Post could be blamed on poor policing.

"We have to get beyond what is legal and start focusing on what is preventable.
Most are preventable," said Ronald L. Davis, a former police chief who heads the
Justice Department's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services.

Police "need to stop chasing down suspects, hopping fences and landing on top of
someone with a gun," Davis said. "When they do that, they have no choice but to
shoot."

As a start, criminologists say the federal government should systematically
analyze police shootings. Currently, the FBI struggles to gather the most basic
data. Reporting is voluntary, and since 2011, less than 3 percent of the
nation's 18,000 state and local police agencies have reported fatal shootings by
their officers to the FBI. As a result, FBI records over the past decade show
only about 400 police shootings a year - an average of 1.1 deaths per day.

According to The Post's analysis, the daily death toll so far for 2015 is close
to 2.6. At that pace, police will have shot and killed nearly 1,000 people by
the end of the year.

"We have to understand the phenomena behind these fatal encounters," Bueermann
said. "There is a compelling social need for this, but a lack of political will
to make it happen."

For the vast majority of departments, a fatal shooting is a rare event. Only 306
agencies have recorded one so far this year, and most had only one, the Post
analysis shows.

However, 19 state and local departments were involved in at least three fatal
shootings. Los Angeles police lead the nation with eight. The latest occurred
May 5, when Brendon Glenn, a 29-year-old homeless black man, was shot after an
altercation outside a Venice bar.

Oklahoma City police have killed four people, including an 83-year-old white man
wielding a machete.

"We want to do the most we can to keep from taking someone's life, even under
the worst circumstances," said Oklahoma City Police Chief William Citty. "There
are just going to be some shootings that are unavoidable."

In Bakersfield, Calif., all three of the department's killings occurred in a
span of 10 days in March. The most recent involved Adrian Hernandez, a
22-year-old Hispanic man accused of raping his roommate, dousing her with
flammable liquid and setting fire to their home.

After a manhunt, police cornered Hernandez, who jumped out of his car holding a
BB gun. Police opened fire, and some Bakersfield residents say they are glad the
officers did.

"I'm relieved he can't come back here, to be honest with you," said Brian Haver,
who lives next door to the house Hernandez torched. "If he came out holding a
gun, what were they supposed to do?"

Although law enforcement officials say many shootings are preventable, that is
not always true. In dozens of cases, officers rushed into volatile situations
and saved lives. Examples of police heroism abound.

In Tempe, Ariz., police rescued a 25-year-old woman who had been stabbed and
tied up and was screaming for help. Her boyfriend, Matthew Metz, a 26-year-old
white man, also stabbed an officer before he was shot and killed, according to
police records.

In San Antonio, a patrol officer heard gunshots and rushed to the parking lot of
Dad's Karaoke bar to find a man shooting into the crowd. Richard Castilleja, a
29-year-old Latino, had hit two men and was still unloading his weapon when he
was shot and killed, according to police records.

And in Los Angeles County, a Hawthorne police officer working overtime was
credited with saving the life of a 12-year-old boy after a frantic woman in a
gray Mercedes pulled alongside the officer and said three men in a white
Cadillac were following her and her son.

Seconds later, the Cadillac roared up. Robert Washington, a 37-year-old black
man, jumped out and began shooting into the woman's car.

"He had two revolvers and started shooting both of them with no words spoken. He
shot and killed the mom, and then he started shooting at the kid," said Eddie
Aguirre, a Los Angeles County homicide detective investigating the case.

"The deputy got out of his patrol car and started shooting," Aguirre said. "He
saved the boy's life."

In about half the shootings, police were responding to non-domestic criminal
situations, with robberies and traffic infractions ranking among the most common
offenses. Nearly half of blacks and other minorities were killed under such
circumstances. So were about a third of whites.

In North Carolina, a police officer searching for clues in a hit-and-run case
approached a green and white mobile home owned by Lester Brown, a 58-year-old
white man. On the front porch, the officer spotted an illegal liquor still. He
called for backup, and drug agents soon arrived with a search warrant.

Officers knocked on the door and asked Brown to secure his dog. Instead, Brown
dashed upstairs and grabbed a Soviet SKS rifle, according to police reports.

Neighbor Joe Guffey Jr. told a local TV reporter that he was sitting at home
with his dogs when the shooting started: "Pow, pow, pow, pow." Brown was hit
seven times and pronounced dead at the scene.

While Brown allegedly stood his ground, many others involved in criminal
activity chose to flee when confronted by police. Kassick, for example,
attracted Mearkle's attention because he had expired vehicle inspection
stickers. On the day he died, Kassick was on felony probation for drunken
driving and had drugs in his system, police and autopsy reports show.

After failing to pull over, Kassick drove to his sister's house in Hummelstown,
Pa., jumped out of the car and ran. Mearkle repeatedly struck Kassick with a
stun gun and then shot him twice in the back while he was face-down in the snow.

Jimmy Ray Robinson, a.k.a. the "Honey Bun Bandit," allegedly robbed five
convenience stores in Central Texas, grabbing some of the sticky pastries along
the way. Robinson, a 51-year-old black man, fled when he spotted Waco police
officers staking out his home.

Robinson sped off in reverse in a green Ford Explorer. It got stuck in the mud,
and four Waco officers opened fire.

"They think they can outrun the officers. They don't realize how dangerous it
is," said Samuel Lee Reid, executive director of the Atlanta Citizen Review
Board, which investigates police shootings and recently launched a "Don't Run"
campaign. "The panic sets in," and "all they can think is that they don't want
to get caught and go back to jail."

The most troubling cases began with a cry for help.

About half the shootings occurred after family members, neighbors or strangers
sought help from police because someone was suicidal, behaving erratically or
threatening violence.

Take Shane Watkins, a 39-year-old white man, who died in his mother's driveway
in Moulton, Ala.

Watkins had never been violent, and family members were not afraid for their
safety when they called Lawrence County sheriff's deputies in March. But
Watkins, who suffered from bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, was off his
medication. Days earlier, he had declared himself the "god of the fifth element"
and demanded whiskey and beer so he could "cleanse the earth with it," said his
sister, Yvonne Cote.

Then he started threatening to shoot himself and his dog, Slayer. His mother
called Cote, who called 911. Cote got back on the phone with her mother, who
watched Watkins walk onto the driveway holding a box cutter to his chest. A
patrol car pulled up, and Cote heard her mother yell: "Don't shoot! He doesn't
have a gun!"

"Then I heard the gunshots," Cote said.

Lawrence County sheriff's officials declined to comment and have refused to
release documents related to the case.

"There are so many unanswered questions," she said. "All he had was a box
cutter. Wasn't there some other way for them to handle this?"

Catherine Daniels called police for the same reason. "I wanted to get my son
help," she said. Instead, officers Peter Ehrlich and Eddo Trimino fired their
stun guns after Hall hit them with the metal end of the broomstick, according to
investigative documents.

"Please don't hurt my child," Daniels pleaded, in a scene captured by a camera
mounted on the dash of one of the patrol cars.

"Get on the f---ing ground or you're dead!" Trimino shouted. Then he fired five
shots.

Police spokesman Mike Wright declined to comment on the case. Daniels said no
one from the city has contacted her. "I haven't received anything. No apology,
nothing."

But hours after her son was killed, Daniels said, officers investigating the
shooting dropped off a six-pack of Coca-Cola.

"I regret calling them," Daniels said. "They took my son's life."

kimberly.kindy@washpost.com

julie.tate@washpost.com

jennifer.jenkins@washpost.com

steven.rich@washpost.com

keith.alexander@washpost.com

wesley.lowery@washpost.com

Ted Mellnik, John Muyskens and Amy Brittain contributed to this report.

About this article

As part of an ongoing examination of police accountability, The Washington Post
has attempted to track every fatal shooting by law enforcement nationwide since
January, as well as the number of officers who were fatally shot in the line of
duty.

The Post compiled the data using news reports, police records, open sources on
the Internet and other original reporting. Several organizations, including
Killed by Police and  Fatal Encounters, have been collecting information about
people who die during encounters with police.

The Post documented only those incidents in which a police officer, while on
duty, shot and killed a civilian. Cases in which officers were shot to death
were also tabulated.

To comprehensively examine the issue, a database was compiled with information
about each incident, including the deceased's age, race, gender, location and
general circumstances. The Post also noted whether police reported that the
person was armed and, if so, with what type of weapon.

The FBI and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention log fatal police
shootings, but the data the two federal agencies gather is incomplete. The Post
analyzed a decade of FBI and CDC records as part of the study.

To examine racial and economic patterns, The Post identified the location of
every fatal shooting and compared it with the composition of the surrounding
census tract.

The data, which will be collected through the end of the year, will be made
public at a future date.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (98%); POLICE FORCES (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); FIREARMS (77%); POPULATION &
DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CENSUS
(66%); CHILDREN (50%)

COMPANY: GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (57%); NASH HOLDINGS LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (56%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%);
NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA
(90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2015


                               3 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                 Copyright 2015 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 10, 2015 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2149 words

HEADLINE: In policing cops, feds aren't always answer;
Justice officials rarely get involved; r eforms can lead to little change.

BYLINE:  By Pat Beall  and Lawrence Mower   Palm Beach Post Staff Writers

BODY:

Don't confuse the Department of Justice with the cavalry.

When it comes to police department reform, "Too many community activists think
the Justice Department is going to save us," said Samuel Walker, a professor
emeritus at the University of Nebraska who has written extensively on police
accountability.

Unofficial reports that Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office shootings had drawn
DOJ's attention began surfacing days after The Palm Beach Post and WPTV
NewsChannel 5 published a series detailing 15 years of shootings. Last week,
Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw said the FBI is investigating a single,
as-yet unidentified PBSO incident.

Federal intervention could lead to sweeping changes in long-established police
practice. However, getting that kind of formal attention is as difficult as it
is rare.

True, there are plenty of recent DOJ interventions: In 2011, it investigated
police departments in Miami and New Orleans; in 2013, Cleveland; in 2014
Ferguson, Mo.; and, last week, the department officially opened a civil rights
investigation into the Baltimore Police Department, after riots followed a man's
in-custody death.

In every case, DOJ was seen as the last, best hope for policing the police.

But for two decades, the special civil rights section handling investigations
has been buffeted by politics and hamstrung by scant resources. And some
departments, including the Miami Police Department, revert to poor or even
lethal policing as soon as DOJ leaves town.

Question of resources

Besieged with hundreds of requests for help every year from advocacy groups,
community leaders, lawyers, city councils, mayors and even police chiefs, DOJ's
civil rights section is simply too small for the task, said Walker.

"You have 18,000 police departments, a lot of police misconduct and extremely
limited resources," he said.

"They couldn't possibly do it all."

For instance, when Michael Brown was shot by a police officer in Ferguson last
August, prompting riots, looting and national outrage, DOJ opened an
investigation into the Ferguson police department. Officials went through 35,000
pages of police records and thousands of emails. They brought in statistical
experts to analyze traffic stops, searches, citations, and arrests. They pored
over court fees and municipal budgets.

That was just one tiny police department: 54 police officers.

It's roughly the same number of lawyers in the entire DOJ section responsible
for police department cases, according to a recent study into DOJ investigations
by The Marshall Project, a nonprofit advocacy group.

That helps explain why, since Congress first gave DOJ authority to investigate
police department misconduct in 1994, the agency has averaged just three
investigations a year, said Stephen Rushin, a visiting professor of law at the
University of Illinois and an expert on DOJ investigations of police misconduct.

"Why us?"

Why DOJ picks one police department over another can be baffling. When DOJ
announced it would investigate Steubenville, Ohio, in 1996, the city manager
protested, "Why us? Why a small town instead of Chicago?"

There's no clear answer, for instance, as to why the FBI would show interest in
Palm Beach County and not Chicago.

And DOJ may want it that way.

"There is no checklist that says, 'If I do these things, I am going to fall into
the investigation bucket, and if I do these other things, I am going to fall
outside the investigation bucket,'" DOJ special litigation chief Jonathan Smith
said in a 2013 meeting with police chiefs from throughout the country.

Keeping police departments guessing can be a useful tool, Rushin suggested.
After all, the prospect of winning DOJ's "terrible lottery" might prompt reforms
just to keep the agency away.

In fact, said Walker, after 20 years of DOJ settlements, every police department
in the country already has a road map for DOJ-blessed reforms.

Bradshaw, for instance, examined DOJ reviews in Albuquerque, N.M., and elsewhere
to develop policies on shootings. It's one reason he insists any federal
investigation will confirm that PBSO is far ahead of the curve when it comes to
what DOJ wants.

"I don't care if they come in here or not," said Bradshaw last year. The sheriff
made his comments shortly after attorney Jack Scarola, who represents a
bicyclist shot and paralyzed by a PBSO deputy in 2013, wrote then-Attorney
General Eric Holder and asked that DOJ investigate.

"I would be very confident that if they looked at our policies, they looked at
our procedures, they looked at how we investigate these things, we're going to
be so far ahead of everybody else, you have no idea," Bradshaw said.

Problems elsewhere

But DOJ has faulted departments in other cities for certain types of shootings
that also occurred in Palm Beach County: shooting unarmed or mentally ill
suspects, shootings in which larger-than-expected numbers of victims are racial
or ethnic minorities and a record of rarely faulting a law enforcement officer's
actions.

In three fatal PBSO shootings since 2010, the suspects weren't armed. Further,
roughly one in every four PBSO shootings since 2000, including those that did
not injure or kill a suspect, also involved unarmed suspects, a figure higher
than at least two cities DOJ has criticized.

Also in the past five years, a 17-year-old with Down syndrome and a mentally ill
man who was not competent to stand trial were shot. A diagnosed schizophrenic
was shot and killed. So was a teenager with serious mental illnesses who was
throwing rocks at a deputy.

Since 2000, PBSO has ruled all but one of 45 fatal shootings were justified.
Since 2010, every PBSO shooting was ruled justified, a 100 percent clearance
rate. By contrast, DOJ found Miami's 87 percent clearance rate unrealistically
high.

Finally, deputies have disproportionately shot at black people, particularly
young men. Although African-Americans make up 15 percent of people living in the
area PBSO patrols, they represent 35 percent of those shot at by PBSO. One in
three was unarmed.

Political winds

No single questionable shooting, or even several shootings, automatically means
DOJ will come knocking.

For one thing, the number of investigations and settlements closely tracks who
occupies the White House.

During the Bill Clinton era, when legislation enabling investigations passed in
the wake of the Rodney King beating, DOJ promptly opened a handful of cases.

President George W. Bush, on the other hand, expressed reluctance to become
involved in local law enforcement issues.

Policies and priorities are expected to shift with administrations. However, in
the Bush years, a deputy assistant attorney general overseeing the DOJ division
handling police investigations went beyond policy shifts, according to a DOJ
inspector general inquiry.

The report concluded Bradley Schlozman weeded out or refused to hire attorneys
not affiliated with Republicans or conservative groups, and expressed a desire
to avoid attorneys involved in "some crazy liberal organization ... I just want
to make sure we don't start confining ourselves to, you know, Politburo members
because they happen to be a member of some, you know, psychopathic left-wing
organization."

However, another assistant attorney general interviewed by the inspector general
said Schlozman wasn't doing anything out of the ordinary: Under Clinton, he
said, there was a virtual ban on hiring conservatives.

Schlozman served between 2003 and 2006. Between 2004 and 2008, new
investigations of police departments dropped sharply. Not one reform agreement
with a police department was finalized, and many investigations simply were
closed.

After Barack Obama was elected, DOJ priorities changed again.

Eric Holder ramped up the number of investigations, picking up speed as Obama
neared reelection: 15 new investigations or major settlements in the past three
years.

Repeat offenders

However, charges against individuals are rarely open and shut: No charges
against a police officer were brought in the Michael Brown shooting, for
instance, which triggered the Ferguson unrest.

And when DOJ investigates a department, there's no guarantee reforms will stick.

Take Miami. After 13 Miami officers were indicted for conspiring to block an
investigation into police shootings, DOJ in 2002 launched its first
investigation at the request of then-Mayor Joe Carollo and Police Chief Raul
Martinez.

Miami pledged voluntary changes, including stronger policies, better training
and thorough investigations into shootings as well as other uses of force.

For 20 months, not a single officer fired a gun.

By 2006, after that period ended, DOJ became alarmed at how officers were using
force on suspects, including lethal force. It sent a letter to the department,
and Miami agreed to restrict shootings and better investigate them.

Then DOJ withdrew.

Shootings began again.

Between 2008 and 2011, police shot at civilians 33 times. In a matter of months,
officers killed six young African-American men.

In February 2011, Travis McNeil became the seventh.

Reaching for cellphone

McNeil and his cousin, Kareem Williams, were pulled over after leaving a bar.

It was a high-powered traffic stop: Miami police and federal agents had been
combing the streets as part of a joint effort to arrest gang members.

Three unmarked cars drew up to McNeil's Kia Sorrento, effectively boxing him in.
Miami officer Reynaldo Goyos drew his gun, got within a foot of McNeil's open
window and fired three shots, killing him.

McNeil had ducked toward the floorboard, Goyos said later, and could have been
reaching for a gun. There was no gun, only two cellphones.

There were other incidents. One officer fired because a motorist was reaching
for his wallet after he had been told to provide identification. At other times,
police literally could not shoot straight: Bullets aimed at suspects were found
lodged in the homes and cars of bystanders.

In 2011, DOJ opened its second investigation in 12 years, concluding that it was
time for "court-enforceable" remedies.

Another way?

Las Vegas tried a different tack.

In 2011, two weeks after The Las Vegas Review-Journal reported many police
shootings of suspects could have been avoided, officers shot and killed an
unarmed, mentally ill Gulf War veteran.

A hail of criticism followed. But instead of an investigation by DOJ's special
litigation section, DOJ's Community Oriented Policing Services division led a
review.

The COPS division has no legal authority to enforce its recommendations, a fact
that led some critics to doubt its effectiveness.

But the process was praised as faster, cheaper and more cooperative, thus
generating change more quickly. And three years after the COPS report was
published, there's evidence that it worked, said William Sousa, director of the
University of Nevada's Center for Crime and Justice Policy.

The number of shootings by Las Vegas Metro Police Department officers overall is
down, he said, and when shootings do occur, the circumstances are more
understandable -- almost all of the suspects have been armed.

Regardless of which DOJ division intervenes, reforms can work, Sousa said.

And regardless of whether DOJ is investigating a single shooting, such as in
Palm Beach County, or an entire department, he said law enforcement officials
will want to take their concerns seriously: "The federal government doesn't
usually have an interest in investing resources in areas where they don't have a
great chance of winning."

pbeall@pbpost.com lmower@pbpost.com

What you need to know

~HOA~128~128~ While some see the U.S. Department of Justice as the ultimate
authority over local police departments, it's rare for the feds to get involved,
and, even when they do, their reforms can lead to little change.

~HOA~128~128~ Further, DOJ investigations are political and depend on who is
occupying the White House.

~HOA~128~128~ Still, DOJ has left a litany of reforms over 20 years, a blueprint
Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw says he considers, even as his agency has
justified 44 of 45 fatal shootings since 2000.

When the Justice Department comes knocking

Three DOJ approaches:

~HOA~128~128~ Investigates entire departments to determine whether a "pattern or
practice" of civil rights violations exists. May impose reforms and force cities
to pay for monitoring.

~HOA~128~128~ Investigates individual police officers, including those who shot
unarmed suspects, to determine whether they used "objectively unreasonable
force." May bring criminal charges.

~HOA~128~128~ Sends in Community Oriented Policing Services division to
investigate or oversee investigation of police departments. Makes nonbinding
recommendations for reform.

WHAT THE

PROBE FOUND

The Post and NewsChannel 5 found that the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office has
cleared 97 percent of fatal police shootings since 2000 and that evidence is
ignored in the investigations.

Read the full investigation at mypalmbeachpost.com/ policeshootings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (95%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); POLICE FORCES (92%);
US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); SHERIFFS (90%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MISCONDUCT (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%);
CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); LAWYERS (78%); COMMUNITY
ACTIVISM (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); RIOTS (78%); MAYORS (78%);
LAW SCHOOLS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); MICHAEL BROWN SHOOTING
(76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); CITIES (69%); COSTS & ATTORNEY
FEES (69%); BUDGETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (96%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (58%);
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (92%);
FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2015


                               4 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 The Florida Times-Union
                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                              May 2, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: Law & Order; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Sex assault reported at middle school

BODY:

The Jacksonville Sheriff's Office is leading an investigation into a reported
sex crime Friday at Matthew Gilbert Middle School.

The Duval County School Board police requested assistance from the Sheriff's
Office Friday after the incident was reported, police said.

No arrests have been made but the Sheriff's Office is investigating. No other
details were released.

Joe Daraskevich

BABY SITTER CONVICTED ON SEX BATTERY CHARGE

A 23-year-old baby sitter who forced a child to perform a sexual act on him in
2012 was convicted and faces a mandatory life sentence in prison, according to
the State Attorney's Office.

Brandon Jerome Fleming was found guilty of sexual battery Friday.

Fleming forced a 6-year-old child to perform a sexual act on him while he was
baby-sitting in 2012, prosecutors said. The child later told her mother and she
contacted authorities.

Fleming is scheduled to be sentenced the week of June 1.

Joe Daraskevich

PERSON IN WHEELCHAIR HIT BY TRACTOR-TRAILER

An adult in an automated wheelchair was taken to a hospital in life-threatening
condition after being struck by a tractor-trailer Thursday night in
Jacksonville.

Officers responded to the 5900 block of New Kings Road about 8:30 p.m. after the
crash was reported and the pedestrian was taken to UF Health Jacksonville in
life-threatening condition, Lt. M.T. Mahaffay said.

He said the pedestrian was in the northbound lanes of New Kings in an area
without a crosswalk near Edgewood Avenue.

The driver of the tractor-trailer remained at the scene and is cooperating with
the investigation, Mahaffay said.

The pedestrian's identity has not been released.

Joe Daraskevich

POLICE: FATAL DISPUTE OVER A CHANGE IN PLANS

A dispute over a change in party plans led to the slaying of a Jacksonville
woman, whose boyfriend was charged Thursday with murder, police said in
releasing new details Friday.

Calvin Tyrone Andrews Jr., 36, is charged with murder in the death of LaBreka
Brittany Evans, 29. Both lived in a home in the 2500 block of Woodland Street.

Andrews was initially charged with aggravated domestic battery after Evans was
shot in the chest April 26. She was shot at their home off Moncrief Road after
the couple began arguing and pushing and shoving over a change in a party they
were planning, said Assistant Chief Chris Butler.

Andrews initially told a neighbor Evans shot herself before driving her to the
hospital. The neighbor told police that Evans was heard saying, "Help me, don't
let him take me."

A witness took possession of children, ages 6 and 10, at the home. Evans was
their mother, while Andrews is the father of one of the children, Butler said.

Evans was listed in life-threatening condition and died two days later. Butler
said police investigated domestic incidents involving the couple in 2008 and
2012.

Jim Schoettler

BAKER

MAN DEAD IN HOME AFTER POLICE STANDOFF

A 62-year-old Baker County man who barricaded himself in a home Friday after
firing shots at his wife was found dead inside when authorities entered,
according to the Sheriff's Office.

The call came about 1:30 p.m. after the man fired shots at his wife as she left
the home on Florida 121 in a vehicle, Sheriff Joey Dobson said. She was not
injured.

Dobson said the special response team surrounded the home and filled it with gas
to try to get the man to come out.

When that didn't work, members of the team entered the home about 5:50 p.m. and
found the man dead from a gunshot wound, Dobson said.

The man's identity has not been released.

Joe Daraskevich

CLAY

JAILED MAN CHARGED WITH VIDEO VOYEURISM

A 55-year-old Orange Park man who was first arrested in December on
child-pornography charges was charged Thursday with 27 counts of video
voyeurism, according to the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.

Gary Dean Newton is in the Clay County jail on $540,000 bail, according to the
Department of Law Enforcement. He will be transferred to the Duval County jail.

Newton was initially arrested after videos of child pornography were found
during a search warrant at his home.

Agents located evidence of video voyeurism involving numerous victims during
that investigation, which led to the additional charges Thursday, according to
the FDLE. Further details were not provided.

Joe Daraskevich

COLUMBIA

THIRD SUSPECT IN FATAL SHOOTING TURNS SELF IN

The third suspect in a deadly Columbia County shooting turned himself in
Thursday night after a wanted poster was reposted to social media, according to
the Lake City Police Department.

Authorities in Columbia County responded to Annie Mattox Park on March 31 after
three people were shot, according to the Lake City Police Department. Two of the
victims survived, but 16-year-old Travarious Claridy died several days later.

A 16-year-old turned himself in after three arrest warrants were issued, then
Bennie L. Jordan, 40, did the same Tuesday after media reported he had a warrant
for his arrest, according to the Police Department.

Ronyeah R. Wright, 19, was the third suspect and was thought to be in
Jacksonville but showed up for Columbia County authorities Thursday night.

Joe Daraskevich

FLAGLER

PALM COAST WOMAN CRITICAL AFTER WRECK

A 60-year-old Palm Coast woman was taken to a hospital in critical condition
Friday after a crash in Flagler County, according to the Florida Highway Patrol.

Yelizaveta Horton was in a Saturn at a stop sign in the northbound lanes of
Smith Trail at Sesame Boulevard when she drove into the path of a Chrysler Town
& Country about 10 a.m., according to the Highway Patrol.

Robin Best, 58, was driving east in the Chrysler and hit the side of the Saturn,
the FHP said. An 8-year-old and a 2-year-old were in the Chrysler. All three in
the van suffered minor injuries.

Horton was transported in life-threatening condition. All were wearing seat
belts, the FHP said.

Joe Daraskevich

PUTNAM

SUSPECT CHARGED AFTER ARMED STANDOFF

A 34-year-old East Palatka man was zapped with a Taser, then arrested late
Thursday after an armed standoff with deputies on Bangor Avenue, according to
the Putnam County Sheriff's Office.

Timothy Paul Anderson was charged with shooting a firearm within a private
residence and two counts of possession of a firearm by a felon.

The standoff began about 9 p.m. after a deputy was dispatched to a home when a
911 caller hung up abruptly, the Sheriff's Office said. The deputy met with
Anderson's mother, who said her son had a handgun and had threatened to shoot
himself. She said he had earlier fired one shot inside another occupied home and
that she had been cut when the bullet shattered a floor tile.

The woman said her son now had a shotgun and was inside a house on Bangor Avenue
with his 81-year-old grandmother.

Deputies surrounded the house, and Anderson came out armed with a large knife,
the Sheriff's Office said. After refusing to drop the knife and lie on the
ground, he was disabled with a Taser and taken into custody.

Dan Scanlan

ST. JOHNS

STUDENT ARRESTED AFTER GUN FOUND IN CAR

A Creekside High School student in St. Johns County has been suspended for 10
days and arrested after a loaded .38-caliber handgun was found in his
sport-utility vehicle at school Thursday afternoon, according to Times-Union
news partner First Coast News.

Griffin Scott Hudgins, 18, was charged with possession of a firearm on school
property. That's after a K-9 police dog alerted authorities to his Ford Explorer
during a sniff check in the parking lot, and the Smith and Wesson revolver,
loaded with five rounds, was found in the trunk, according to the St. Johns
County Sheriff's Office.

The student was automatically suspended and will go before the county school
district's discipline committee to determine whether further punishment is
warranted, district spokeswoman Christina Langston said.

Hudgins told school staff at the scene that he knew the gun was inside the
vehicle, according to an arrest report. Also found inside the vehicle was a
retractable metal baton, according to the report.

First Coast News

GRAPHIC: Photo
Mug: Newton Mug: Fleming Mug: Wright

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (91%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS
(90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); CHILDREN (89%);
MURDER (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (89%); SHOOTINGS
(85%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); CORRECTIONS (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (76%);
VERDICTS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015


                               5 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2015 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                               The Baltimore Sun

                              May 17, 2015 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; SUN INVESTIGATES; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3423 words

HEADLINE: Baltimore police rarely prosecuted in deaths;
Before Gray case, just five in three decades charged in fatal actions while on
duty

BYLINE: By Doug Donovan and Jean Marbella, The Baltimore Sun

BODY:

Marleta House struggled for years to stop hating the Baltimore police officer
who shot and killed her husband in 1999 after mistaking his cellphone for a gun.
"I don't hate him now," said House, who lives in Dundalk. "He has to answer to a
higher power."

But the 45-year-old MTA bus driver remains just as frustrated today that Officer
Christopher Graul was not charged and that Baltimore prosecutors never bothered
to tell her why.

Most families do not see officers charged and tried in a death resulting from an
encounter with city police. In fact, before State's Attorney Marilyn J. Mosby
charged six officers in the death of Freddie Gray, just five city officers
during the past three decades have faced criminal prosecution for on-duty
actions that resulted in death, according to interviews with experts, news
reports, government data and court records. One was found guilty; the verdict
was overturned on appeal.

While officials acknowledge that there is no comprehensive historical data on
police-involved deaths, the period since 2006 provides a telling sample.
Sixty-seven people died in encounters with officers over that period, according
to the Baltimore Police Department, and two officers faced criminal charges in
those incidents. One, who was on duty when a fatal shooting took place, was
acquitted. Another, who was off duty at a nightclub, was convicted and sentenced
to 15 years in a separate shooting.

That illustrates the high bar Mosby faces as she seeks to turn her charges into
convictions. Four officers in the Gray case face charges that range from
involuntary manslaughter to second-degree-murder; the two others face lesser
charges.

"It's very difficult to get verdicts against the police," said A. Dwight Pettit,
an attorney who has filed dozens of civil lawsuits alleging police brutality,
including one he lost involving the death of House's husband. "People do not
want to believe -- before the advent of cameras and cellphones -- that the
police would do that type of malicious conduct."

House and other relatives of those who died in police encounters hope Mosby's
prosecution and a federal investigation of the Police Department will help
change a prosecutorial process that they say favors police and fosters further
brutality.

"With the Freddie Gray case, at least someone can have justice," House said.
"They will never have closure. It's just a sad situation. You're leaving kids
without fathers, wives without husbands, mothers without sons. With no answers."

Policing experts say the reason Baltimore officers avoid charges is clear: They
are frequently thrust into dangerous situations in one of the nation's most
violent cities and must protect themselves, their partners and others in the
vicinity.

"As horrible as it is, the officer can do it right by the book and someone may
tragically lose their life," said Bill Johnson, executive director of the
National Association of Police Organizations.

Officers involved in deaths are intensely scrutinized -- by internal affairs
units, prosecutors, the news media, lawyers, civilian review boards and,
sometimes, federal investigators, he said.

"I don't think it's correct for people to say that these things get swept under
the carpet," Johnson said.

Mosby and predecessors Gregg L. Bernstein and Patricia C. Jessamy declined to
comment for this article, as did the Baltimore Police Department and the
Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 3.

But other prosecutors say the decision to charge an officer must follow the
evidence, not public passions.

"There's no big conspiracy not to convict police officers," said Melba V.
Pearson, president of the National Black Prosecutors Association. "I cannot file
cases that I cannot prove."

While Mosby has been praised for charging the officers involved in the April 12
arrest of Gray -- who died a week later from spinal injuries sustained in police
custody -- some legal experts say she brought charges to quell Baltimore's civil
unrest rather than to seek justice.

"Every death is a tragedy, but not every death is a murder or a crime," said
Jason Weinstein, a criminal defense attorney and former federal prosecutor in
Maryland who won a public corruption conviction against former Baltimore police
Commissioner Edward Norris in 2004. "Whether you have a badge or not, if there
is sufficient evidence that you engaged in illegal conduct, you should be
prosecuted.

"But if there's not sufficient evidence, then you shouldn't be prosecuted. That
should be the only question. It shouldn't be how much coverage there is on CNN
or if there were riots."

The city's rare cases

The last Baltimore officer charged with an on-duty killing was Tommy Sanders in
2008. Sanders shot an unarmed 27-year-old in the back as the man fled from the
Hamilton Park Shopping Center. A jury acquitted Sanders of manslaughter after he
said the man, Edward Lamont Hunt, reached into a pocket, making him fear for his
life.

Years earlier, Stephen Pagotto was charged with manslaughter in the 1996
shooting death of a 22-year-old man during a traffic stop in Northeast
Baltimore. Pagotto was convicted, but the verdict was overturned on appeal.

Pagotto said the shooting was an accident caused when his gun discharged
accidentally, and the state's highest court ruled he was not criminally
responsible. But the court noted that the sergeant violated departmental rules,
which amounted to "civil negligence," and the city paid $100,000 to settle a
lawsuit filed by the family of the driver, Preston Barnes.

In such settlements, the city and officers do not acknowledge liability for a
death.

Charges against three other officers in the deaths of suspects between 1983 and
1994 ended in a mistrial and two acquittals.

The only other officer to be convicted of manslaughter in the past 30 years was
Gahiji Tshamba, who was off duty when he shot and killed Tyrone Brown in a fight
outside a nightclub in 2010. He was sentenced to 15 years, and the city paid a
settlement in the death because Brown's lawyer argued that Tshamba had claimed
to be making an off-duty arrest.

Such cases, though, are exceptions. Officers rarely are charged, let alone
convicted, in arrest-related deaths.

But just how rare it is can be hard to quantify because not all law enforcement
agencies keep track of the number of people killed in police encounters, and
there is some variability in the way states collect data. Over the three
decades, at least 120 people have died in encounters with Baltimore police,
according to city statistics and news reports.

The federal Bureau of Justice Statistics concluded in March that its tally of
arrest-related deaths likely captures half, at best, of the actual number of
incidents. Nationwide from 2003 to 2009, the most recent statistics available,
4,813 arrest-related deaths were reported to the agency. Nearly 3,000 of them
were classified as homicides by law enforcement; others include people who
committed suicide when an officer responded to a 911 call, or who sped away from
a traffic stop and crashed. Detainees also have died from drug overdoses and
other health problems while in police custody.

A bill signed into law by Gov. Larry Hogan on Tuesday requires law enforcement
agencies to report to the state the number of police-involved deaths, as well as
any officers killed in the line of duty.

The Governor's Office of Crime Control and Prevention will start collecting the
data in July and issue a report in October 2016 that will cover the three
previous years, said Gregory Coster, who directs the office's Maryland
Statistical Analysis Center. He said Maryland was already reporting deaths to
the Bureau of Justice Statistics on a voluntary basis, but the new law makes it
mandatory for local police departments to provide information to the state.

"I think any time you have a death in police custody, it's something state and
local government and the community needs to know about," said Christopher Shank,
the former state senator who now directs the crime control office.

'I try to make him proud'

Officer Shean D. Camper is among the rarities. A grand jury indicted him for
manslaughter in the shooting death of Jerrod D. Wagstaff, 25, in a dark alley
off the 2700 block of Tivoly Ave. on May 6, 1994.

"I'm gone, man, I'm gone," Andre Flood, now 44, remembers his brother saying as
he lay wounded that night.

Flood and his mother returned this week to their former block, one of
Baltimore's most notoriously criminal and tragic. After years of contending with
the blight and drug trafficking in that part of Northeast Baltimore, the city in
2008 began leveling the block for a multimillion-dollar redevelopment project.

But two bedraggled rowhouses remain on one stretch of the street: 2783, where
the Floods lived, and 2781, where 10 people perished in a 1982 fire that remains
among the most deadly in city history.

"I come down every once in a while just to look," Diane Flood said as a giant
earth-moving machine rumbled over a pile of bricks a couple of lots down.

The night of the shooting remains vivid to the Floods 21 years later: Police
arrived to investigate reports of gunfire in the area, and Camper said Wagstaff
began running, prompting a chase. Stories diverge at this point: Camper said the
two scuffled, and he fired when Wagstaff took a threatening stance. Witnesses
said Wagstaff was climbing over a fence when he was shot.

The medical examiner's report said Wagstaff had puncture marks on his left hand
from scaling the fence, and a bullet fired by Camper shattered against the
fence, with a fragment striking Wagstaff.

A witness at the time said she heard Wagstaff call for his mother, a medical
assistant. But Andre Flood said police prevented her from getting to him and
possibly rendering aid. Diane Flood said she rode in the ambulance with her
unconscious son to Johns Hopkins Hospital, where a doctor she worked with was
among those who tried to save him.

Camper went to trial in March 1995 and was found not guilty. He and his attorney
did not respond to requests for comment.

"I felt as though he had gotten away with shooting my son," said Diane Flood,
now retired. She filed a wrongful-death suit against Camper, hoping that
Wagstaff's son, then 2, would have money for college.

Before that civil suit could come to trial, Camper, while off duty, was involved
in a traffic dispute in which the other driver stopped, got out and struck him
with a baseball bat. Camper shot and critically wounded the man, and the
shooting was ruled justified.

A jury ultimately awarded Wagstaff's family $111,000. The award was later
revised, and Flood said that after lawyers' fees, she and her grandson each
received about $33,000.

Wagstaff's son, Brian Daniels, now 23, said his grandmother's wishes were
fulfilled -- some of the settlement allowed him to attend community college and
Morgan State University. He now works seven days a week -- Monday through Friday
in help-desk support for TEKsystems, which was founded by Ravens owner Steve
Bisciotti, and on weekends at a YMCA.

No amount of money, though, can replace his loss, he said.

"I don't have a memory of my dad. I didn't have him at my games, at graduation,
at birthday parties," said Daniels, who played football and lacrosse at Dunbar
High School. "But I try to make him proud."

Daniels credits his family, especially his grandmother Diane and uncle Andre,
who is a truck driver and coach, with raising him to respect police officers.
And in fact, he said, he has applied to join the Anne Arundel Police Department.

A 'difficult' standard

The details of a 1994 incident are eerily familiar: A man is arrested in
Sandtown-Winchester and placed in a police transport van, where he is later
found unconscious.

Police said Jesse Chapman, 30, followed his girlfriend into the Western District
police station late that night, where she'd gone to complain that he had beaten
her. There, he tried to hit her, police said, and when officers tried to
intervene, he ran. Police chased and caught him.

The death triggered days of protests, with more than 100 demonstrators
converging on the Western District station at times.

The medical examiner's office said Chapman's heart-lung system collapsed under
stress from cocaine use, an asthma attack and a struggle with arresting
officers, and there was no evidence of repeated blows or significant injuries. A
grand jury declined to indict the officers involved.

While most police officers who have been involved in arrest-related deaths
declined to comment for this article or did not respond to requests, one former
officer did defend his actions.

Charles M. Smothers shot a knife-wielding man outside Lexington Market in August
1997, an incident that was videotaped by a bystander and sparked community
protests. But he rejected comparisons to the death of Freddie Gray.

"My case is totally different," Smothers said. "I shot an armed suspect."

The videotape of the shooting showed four officers with their guns drawn
approaching James Quarles III, who had been using a knife to open a package of
socks he was hawking on the street. They ordered the 22-year-old, who was
hunched with both hands close to the ground, to drop the knife, and when he
failed to do so, Smothers shot him.

Then-state's attorney Jessamy decided not to present the case to a grand jury
because she could "find no evidence of a crime."

Smothers' career was changed anyway. As a result of the shooting, a previous
domestic violence incident became more widely known and then-Commissioner Thomas
C. Frazier fired him. Smothers had been charged with shooting at an
ex-girlfriend and her new boyfriend in April 1995 -- the officer said his gun
went off accidentally -- and he received probation before judgment.

"As a police officer, I did my job," said Smothers, who has joined the Fire
Department. "The Police Department turned their back on me."

When police officers are accused of shooting someone, they often testify that
they feared for their life.

That's no accident. The Supreme Court case of Graham v. Connor established the
reasonableness standard for judging police officers who shoot people.
Prosecutors and juries are required to consider the actions by putting
themselves into the decisive moment when a gun was used, based on the specific
facts and circumstances of each incident.

If officers say they feared for their lives when they killed someone, it's hard
to refute that assertion without other credible evidence, said Ron Hosko, a
former assistant FBI director and president of the Law Enforcement Legal Defense
Fund.

That's for good reason, said Jim Pasco, executive director of the National
Fraternal Order of Police. "What would seem to be the most routine of police
activities -- a traffic stop and a call for a domestic incident -- are
ironically the most dangerous," he said.

A New York City officer and two officers in Mississippi died this month from
gunshot wounds suffered in traffic stops.

"Often they come on a scene when an event is in progress, and they have to make
a split-second decision about what action to take," Pasco said. "These actions
are subject to endless second-guessing."

But that frustrates attorneys like Pettit.

"That's the boilerplate, standard defense: 'I thought I saw a gun, I thought my
life was in jeopardy and I reacted,' " he said. "The Supreme Court doesn't allow
you to second-guess the police and their other options. The law makes it very
difficult to try these cases."

'An ugly situation'

Critics say other factors add to the difficulty of bringing charges against
police officers who are involved in a suspect's death.

Officers often protect one another in such situations, said attorney William H.
"Billy" Murphy Jr., who represents Gray's family. "That's dishonorable. You have
a nation that institutionally the police are believed over anybody black and
over most citizens."

In addition, Murphy said prosecutors struggle to bring charges against officers
they work with routinely.

Philip Stinson, a criminologist at Bowling Green State University who has
studied police misconduct cases, said it's always a challenge to convict police
officers.

"Nobody wants to see a cop go to prison," Stinson said. "It's an ugly
situation."

But he said the Gray case might be easier to win than a typical case of a
questionable police shooting.

"Juries are very reluctant to second-guess police officers -- especially in
life-and-death situations," he said. But in the Gray case, Stinson said, it
would be difficult to convince a jury that the officers were in any danger.

The facts are still not clear, said Hosko of the Law Enforcement Legal Defense
Fund. While Mosby alleges that officers ignored Gray's requests for medical care
and placed him in a transport van without securing him in a seat belt --
violations of department policy -- Hosko notes that many detainees fake injuries
to avoid going to jail. Some officers do not place seat belts on suspects who
are acting violently, he added.

Mosby has a long way to go to prove that the officers had any criminal intent in
how they treated Gray, he said.

But Hosko said it is possible that one or more officers in Gray's arrest might
deserve to be criminally charged.

"Are there people who shouldn't be in law enforcement? Absolutely. Good
leadership should run them off. But you have a lot of folks out there who got
into law enforcement to be public servants and to ensure others' safety at their
own risk," Hosko said.

But Tawanda Jones, whose brother died in a scuffle with police, is among those
encouraged by Mosby's stance.

Jones said a prosecutor's decision not to pursue charges in the death of her
brother Tyrone West drove her family to hold protests since he died on July 18,
2013.

The state's attorney's office said that officers were legally justified in using
fists, batons and pepper spray to subdue West, who resisted arrest after a
traffic stop. He died as police pinned him on the ground.

The medical examiner's office found that West died of a heart problem made worse
by dehydration, the July heat and his struggle with police. The autopsy report
said West did not suffer any injuries that could have killed him, but the
medical examiner could not determine whether the death resulted from an
accident, homicide or another means.

Jones said then-state's attorney Bernstein did meet with the family to explain
he would not be indicting any officers. "He had the nerve to have us escorted
out by a police officer," she said.

She still is upset about Bernstein's decision, and recently voiced allegations
of police brutality to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch during Lynch's
Baltimore visit. The Justice Department later announced a broad civil rights
investigation of Baltimore's police.

Jones said Mosby has lived up to a campaign promise to prosecute police for
misconduct.

"I'm pleased that [Mosby] kept her word true to what she said she will do to
handle police brutality," Jones said.

Greta Carter-Willis -- who watched an officer shoot and kill her 14-year-old son
in her Southwest Baltimore rowhouse -- also is encouraged by Mosby's decision to
charge the officers in Gray's death.

On Aug. 12, 2006, Carter-Willis called police to calm her son, Kevin Cooper,
because the two were arguing. Police said the boy was assaulting his mother, who
has always denied that. After two officers responded and calmed the boy, Officer
Roderick Mitter stayed to write a report while the other officer left.

Police said Mitter and the boy continued to argue, and the officer sprayed him
with Mace to no effect. The boy then hit Mitter with a broom handle, which
broke, and came at the officer with the jagged broken end, according to police.
That's when Mitter shot him in the shoulder.

Carter-Willis, 52, a retired state correctional officer, disputes the police
account. She says Mitter instigated the argument with her son, who was holding a
dustpan when the officer shot him.

The boy, who had no criminal record, died that day.

Police declared the shooting "justified" by that afternoon, a decision that
Carter-Willis says still baffles her. Mitter, who remains a police officer, did
not respond to a request for comment.

Pettit filed a lawsuit for wrongful death, but the family lost.

Now, Carter-Willis is closely watching the Gray case.

Mosby's action, she said, "gives me hope that changes are taking place" in how
the justice system handles police-involved deaths.

"It's been swept under the rug," she said, "for a very long time."

ddonovan@baltsun.com

jmarbella@baltsun.com

More online

For an interactive graphic on past charges against police, go to
baltimoresun.com

GRAPHIC: Photo(s)
 Photo: Above, Marleta House holds a photo of her husband, Mardio,  with son
Marlik. For years, said House, right, she struggled to  stop hating the
Baltimore officer who killed her unarmed husband in  1999 and was never charged.
"I don't hate him now," she said. "He  has to answer to a higher power."
Photo: Andre Flood's brother Jerrod D. Wagstaff, 25, was shot and killed by an
officer in a dark alley near their rowhouse in the 2700 block of Tivoly Ave. in
Northeast Baltimore on May 6, 1994. Photo: The Baltimore officer who shot
Wagstaff was acquitted of manslaughter. "I felt as though he had gotten away
with shooting my son," said Diane Flood, with son Andre.
 Lloyd Fox/Baltimore Sun  Karl Merton Ferron/Baltimore Sun photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES
(90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); MURDER (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%);
MANSLAUGHTER (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR
TELEPHONES (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); SENTENCING (76%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS
(75%); LAWYERS (74%); INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%);
HISTORY (69%); ACQUITTAL (68%); APPEALS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2015


                               6 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                       Copyright 2015 Sampson Independent
                 Sampson Independent (Clinton, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 22, 2015 Friday

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Deputy 'justified' in shooting

BYLINE: Chris Berendt, The Sampson Independent, Clinton, N.C.

BODY:

May 22--A Sampson County sheriff's deputy who shot and killed an armed robbery
suspect last month was justified in his actions due to the apparent danger posed
by the man, who wielded a shotgun as he approached the deputies, District
Attorney Ernie Lee said Thursday.

On April 12, Jason Lee Evans, 32, of Harrells, was fatally shot by Sheriff's
Deputy Louis M. High Jr. following a robbery in Garland that extended into a
high-speed car chase and subsequent shooting on N.C. 242 near Salemburg.

"After reviewing the investigation with the North Carolina State Bureau of
Investigation, it is clear that Evans' death, while tragic, was justified
because Evans' actions caused Deputy High to reasonably believe it necessary to
use deadly force to protect the lives of (himself) and Sgt. Edward Vann," Lee
said in a lengthy statement released Thursday.

In the release, the district attorney lays out the evidence in the case and the
details of the investigation that occurred in the weeks that followed.

The investigation revealed that prior to the shooting, Evans had committed a
robbery of the Han-Dee Hugo's convenience store located at 19 N. Ingold Ave.,
Garland, was armed with an illegally sawed-off single barrel 410 Revelation
shotgun, fired the shotgun at the Han-Dee Hugo's and engaged in a high-speed
chase traveling in excess of 100 mph from Garland to near Roseboro.

After using stop sticks to cause Evans to stop his vehicle on N.C. 242 between
Reeda Branch Road and Corinth Church Road, Evans exited his vehicle in the
presence of two deputies, High and Vann, with his sawed-off shotgun. Vann warned
Evans to drop his shotgun but Evans kept the shotgun in his right hand toward
his own head and refused to follow the commands of law enforcement to put the
shotgun down. High fired his law enforcement issued 9 mm handgun, hitting Evans
four times.

"Although tragic that a life was lost, the shooting death of Evans is found to
be justified to protect the safety and lives of Deputy High and Sgt. Vann from
potential harm as perceived by Deputy High," Lee stated.

The deputy was placed on paid administrative leave pending the investigation.
The SBI dispatched agents to N.C. 242 to investigate the shooting. Lee kept in
close contact with SBI Special Agent Bradley Williams, the lead investigator in
the case, throughout the probe.

On May 8, Lee said he viewed the video of the armed robbery at the Han-Dee
Hugo's as well as the footage from a video camera mounted on Vann's vehicle that
captured the high-speed chase and subsequent shooting.

Video footage shows that at about 11:30 p.m., as Evans entered the convenience
store he fired one shot from his shotgun into the ceiling and told the two
clerks he wanted the registers emptied. Evans reloaded the shotgun while in the
store and obtained money during the robbery. At 11:32 p.m., one of the clerks
was able to activate the silent alarm, dispatching deputies to the store minutes
later. The exterior video camera system at the convenience store shows Evans
leaving the store in a white four-door Chevrolet Malibu.

At approximately 11:41 p.m., Vann observed the Malibu on N.C. 411 and began his
pursuit, reaching speeds in excess of 100 mph. Moments later, High placed stop
sticks in the highway in an attempt to stop the Malibu. The vehicle struck the
stop sticks and eventually one of his tires began to shred. High and Vann
continued their pursuit of Evans, who was seen reaching into his backseat by
Vann.

The tire on Evans' vehicle continued to shred and he was eventually riding on
the exposed rim, at which point he finally stopped between Reeda Branch Road and
Corinth Church Road, approximately 20 miles from the convenience store in
Garland.

Vann's in-car camera video shows Evans exiting his vehicle with his shotgun in
his right hand. Vann repeatedly yelled at Evans to put the weapon down and he
continued to move away from his car and in the direction of the deputies, Lee
stated. He inched closer to deputies with the shotgun to his head, never firing
the weapon.

In a statement made to the SBI, High gave an account consistent with the video
recording of the pursuit and the shooting, Lee noted. He said he felt threatened
by Evans as the man moved from the Malibu and in a direction towards the
deputies.

At approximately 11:49 p.m., Lee said, High fired his Sig Sauer P226 9mm service
handgun at Evans, firing six rounds in total and striking Evans four times. Vann
pulled his service handgun but did not fire his weapon. Evans was killed at the
scene. The sawed-off shotgun was found next to Evans, loaded with one shotgun
shell.

Medical Examiner Dr. Carl Barr, who conducted an autopsy on Evans, confirmed
four gunshot wounds, one grazing Evans' right forearm and another that went
through his left arm, neither of which were life-threatening. The other two
gunshot wounds were to Evans' neck and his head, which was lethal, Barr said.

Lee cited N.C. General Statute 15A-401, which states that when making an arrest
a law enforcement officer is justified in using deadly physical force upon
another person to defend himself or a third person from what he reasonably
believes to be the use or imminent use of deadly physical force. Additionally,
he said, general rules of self-defense and defense of others in North Carolina
allow for the use of deadly force when the individual actually, or honestly,
believed in the need to defend himself or others from death or great bodily
injury, the District attorney said.

"Clearly, from the facts and circumstances of this case, the officer was
justified in using deadly force to defend himself and others from death or great
bodily injury," Lee remarked. "Law enforcement officers are required to
instantaneously evaluate and employ force against possible criminal suspects to
thwart apparent dangers to citizens and themselves. Officers must perceive,
evaluate, decide and then act often in a matter of seconds. The perceived danger
to the officer must be only apparent, not actual, in order to justify use of
deadly force."

Although there is evidence of actual danger to High, under the law there was
also apparent danger as perceived by him, Lee stated. From the evidence, he
noted, it "reasonably appeared" to High there was sufficient basis for
self-defense and defense of third persons, his fellow deputy.

"Based upon my review of the facts of this case, I have determined that the
shooting of Jason Lee Evans on April 12, 2015 was justified to protect the
safety and lives of Deputy High and Sgt. Vann as the threat appeared to Deputy
High," Lee said. "Deputy High perceived an apparent threat, evaluated the
situation in split seconds, made a decision and acted. Deputy High's actions
appear reasonable under all the circumstances of this case."

From all the evidence, High initially exercised restraint in the face of
imminent danger as Evans exited his vehicle with a loaded weapon in a manner
that could reasonably be deemed as threatening, the district attorney.

"As tragic as this incident is with the loss of life, Deputy High nonetheless
was justified in defending himself from death or great bodily injury and in
defending the life of fellow officer, Sgt. Vann," Lee concluded. "There is
insufficient evidence beyond a reasonable doubt to show that Deputy High acted
in a manner that was not consistent with his perception of an apparent threat."

Reach staff writer Chris Berendt at 910-249-4616. Follow the paper on twitter
@SampsonInd and like us on Facebook.

___ (c)2015 The Sampson Independent (Clinton, N.C.) Visit The Sampson
Independent (Clinton, N.C.) at www.clintonnc.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1SM

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); SHERIFFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ROBBERY (90%);
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%);
FIREARMS (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE (75%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (69%); CONVENIENCE
STORES (66%); EVIDENCE (53%)

INDUSTRY: General

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015


                               7 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                            Copyright 2015 Press TV
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                                    Press TV

                              May 31, 2015 Sunday

LENGTH: 490  words

HEADLINE: Fatal US police shootings in 2015 at 385: Report

BODY:

A new report shows that US police have shot and killed 385 people during the
first five months of 2015, an average of more than two fatal shootings a day.

The death rate is over twice the account tallied by the federal government
during the past 10 years, which officials admit is incomplete, according to a
Washington Post analysis published on Saturday.

"These shootings are grossly under­reported," said Jim Bueermann, a former
police chief and president of the Washington-based Police Foundation, a
nonprofit organization which works to improve law enforcement.

"We are never going to reduce the number of police shootings if we don't begin
to accurately track this information," Bueermann was quoted by The Post as
saying.

The analysis is the result of information The Post is compiling on every fatal
shooting by police in 2015 in addition to data of every officer killed by
gunfire in the line of duty.

The data is related to shootings and does not include killings by other means,
such as stun guns and deaths in police custody.

The study shows that almost half the victims were minority. However, the
demographics shifted markedly among the unarmed victims, with two-thirds being
African American or Hispanic.

On the whole, US police killed blacks at three times the rate of whites or other
minorities when adjusting by the population of the census tracts, where the
shootings took place.

The Los Angeles Police Department engages in an altercation that ended in the
death of a homeless man on March 1, 2015.

A large proportion of the victims, over 80 percent, were armed with objects,
including guns, knives, machetes, revving vehicles and, in one case, a nail gun.

49 people were not armed with any weapons, while the guns used by 13 others were
not real. Overall, 16 percent were either carrying a toy or were unarmed,
according to The Post.

Several current and former police chiefs and other criminal justice officials
said it was time police accepted responsibility for the bloodshed. They argued
that a vast majority of the killings, examined by The Post, resulted from poor
policing.

"We have to get beyond what is legal and start focusing on what is preventable.
Most are preventable," said Ronald L. Davis, a former police chief, who heads
the Justice Department's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services.

Police "need to stop chasing down suspects, hopping fences and landing on top of
someone with a gun," Davis said. "When they do that, they have no choice but to
shoot."

The report came as many US cities have been the scene of protests over the
deaths of several unarmed African Americans by white police officers and
decisions by grand juries not to indict the officers.

Another analysis by The Post and researchers at Bowling Green State University,
released last week, showed that only 54 officers have been charged for thousands
of fatal shootings at the hands of police across the United States over the past
decade.

AT/HRJ

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Wire

JOURNAL-CODE: 701

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (97%); POLICE FORCES (91%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FIREARMS (77%); POPULATION &
DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CENSUS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC
GROUPS (71%); INDICTMENTS (66%); GRAND JURY (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2015


                               8 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2015 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                              May 17, 2015 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Chris Rickert; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: POLICE SHOOTINGS ARE NOT ALL ALIKE

BYLINE:  CHRIS RICKERT  crickert@madison.com, 608-252-6198

BODY:

On the day the Dane County district attorney announced he would not file charges
against the white Madison police officer who shot and killed an unarmed, black
19-year-old, Madison's leading civil rights organization posed this
hypothetical: "(W)e believe it is a legitimate question to ask whether the
outcome of this encounter would have been different had Tony Robinson been a
white, middle-class teen engaged in similar behavior," the Urban League of
Greater Madison said in a statement.

It is a legitimate question, and based on the details of other recent, fatal
Madison police shootings, the answer is: "no, probably not."

Since what can fairly be described in a city the size of Madison as a spate of
fatal police shootings that began in November 2012, four of six victims have
been white and one of the white victims was also unarmed. No officers were
charged in the incidents.

Londrell Johnson, 33, was black and was fatally shot by police on May 2, 2014,
after he stabbed three people, two of them to death. Johnson had a long history
of mental illness.

Only three months apart in 2013, Brent Brozek, 43, and Charles Carll, 59, both
white, were killed by police. Brozek had mental health problems and had come at
officers with a sword outside his condo, and Carll had advanced on officers with
a knife in his backyard, according to investigators.

Paul Heenan, 30, was killed on Nov. 9, 2012, in the front yard of an East Side
home after being reported as a possible burglary suspect. Heenan, who was white,
was unarmed but intoxicated and allegedly reached for the officer's gun during a
struggle.

In what I've always thought was the least justified killing of the six, a
26-year-old white woman, Ashley DiPiazza, was shot and killed by police a year
ago Monday after she refused orders to drop a gun ? which she was pointing at
her own head.

No one else was in the apartment where the DiPiazza shooting occurred, and
nearby apartments were evacuated ? so it's unlikely DiPiazza would have been
able to put anyone else in danger. Instead of setting up a perimeter outside the
building, police entered the apartment.

When about 30 minutes' worth of trying to talk her down failed, she walked out
of a bedroom toward the officers, who shot her.

Ruben Anthony, president and CEO of the Urban League, said the Robinson killing
and the other killings are "not comparable situations."

"In all but the Heenan situation, the suspect was armed," he said. "According to
the DA's findings (on Tuesday), the officer was informed Tony was unarmed." That
is an important detail, but then so are lots of details.

Heenan, the unarmed white man, for example, wasn't reported to be "acting
insane" and on hallucinogenic mushrooms.

He wasn't a suspect in three assaults and possibly engaged in a fourth when
police arrived. He didn't ambush and strike an officer in the head from the top
of a 4-foot-wide stairway.

Those are all things Robinson did or was suspected of doing in the minutes
before he was killed, according to the state's investigation.

"Study after study after study has shown that African- Americans face more
severe outcomes when they come into contact with law enforcement," Anthony
noted.

That's true, and if all that were needed to determine a specific officer's
culpability in a specific police shooting were studies, there would be no need
for investigations of the details of a specific officer's culpability in a
specific police shooting.

Of course, we all pay attention to different details, sometimes because those
are the most important details to pay attention to and sometimes because those
are the details we prefer or need ? for a variety of reasons ? to pay attention
to.

With the possible exception of Johnson, none of the six people Madison police
have shot and killed since November 2012 did anything in the moments before they
died that was deserving of their fate.

But they all had life circumstances and made decisions that made it more likely
for them to be involved in the kinds of violent encounters with police that can
end in death.

Neither are any of their stories any more tragic than any of the others ? or any
less of a reason for police and the public to constantly be reviewing and
improving police procedures.

That Robinson's death can look like another suspicious killing of an unarmed
black suspect by police doesn't mean that it is.

Nor does it make Madison police the same as police in Ferguson, Missouri, or New
York City or Baltimore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%);
INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BURGLARY (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS
ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MENTAL HEALTH (71%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (71%); MENTAL
ILLNESS (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (57%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

PUB-SUBJECT: #wsj, chris rickert, tony robinson, officerinvolved deaths, matt
kenny, ismael ozanne, ruben anthony, urban league of greater madison, ashley
dipiazza, paul heenan, charles carll, londrell johnson, brent brozek

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (73%) WISCONSIN, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2015


                               9 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved
                         The Christian Science Monitor

                             May 23, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Cleveland officer Michael Brelo not guilty: How policing weighs on
justice;
Cleveland police officer Michael Brelo has been found not guilty in the deaths
of two unarmed people in a 137-shot barrage of police gunfire. The US Justice
Department has determined that Cleveland police for years engaged in a pattern
of using excessive force.

BYLINE: Patrik Jonsson Staff writer

BODY:

Michael Brelo, a white Cleveland police officer indicted for jumping on a car
hood to fire a deadly volley of gunfire at two unarmed motorists in 2012, has
been found not guilty by a county judge in Ohio, reiterating the complex
dynamics that make it hard to find police officers guilty of crimes committed as
they carry out their duty.

The deaths of Timothy Russell and Malissa Williams, both black, were included as
a point of criticism in a 2014 US Department of Justice report that called for a
federal monitor to oversee the Cleveland Police Department. The not guilty
verdict  on Saturday comes amid heightened scrutiny and protest around police
shooting deaths, including the looming outcome of an investigation into the
death of 12-year-old Tamir Rice by two Cleveland police officers in November.

The verdict also came on a day that saw more protests in Olympia, Wash., where a
white police officer on Thursday shot two black skateboarders after they
allegedly shoplifted beer. Police say the officer was attacked by the two young
men before he fired. Both men are expected to survive.

Given the dynamics of the 2012 shooting, the verdict reflects in part the
difficulty of prosecuting police officers for heat of the moment decisions. Last
year, two grand juries - one in Ferguson, Mo., the other in Staten Island -
declined to return criminal charges against police officers involved in the
killing of unarmed black men. Protests and riots have followed such acquittals.

This week, a Baltimore grand jury indicted six police officers for their alleged
roles in the death of a black man named Freddie Gray. Mr. Gray's death caused
two separate spasms of localized riots in Baltimore before the officers were
charged.

Mr. Brelo, the Cleveland officer, was indicted for voluntary manslaughter for
jumping on the hood of a car that had been under police fire and shooting
repeatedly down into the windshield. Whether any of Brelo's 15 fired bullets
were the fatal blows was a key question in the trial, given that each victim
received over 20 bullet wounds a piece.

Cuyahoga County Judge John P. O'Donnell also determined that Officer Brelo was
not guilty of two lesser-included counts of felonious assault.

In a nod to wide legal latitude given to police officers in dangerous
situations, Judge O'Donnell found that Brelo, in the heat of the moment,
reasonably perceived a threat from the two motorists. He, however, "ran afoul of
the Constitution" when he got on top of the car, since that's a tactic that
officers are not trained to do, Mr. O'Donnell noted. Brelo could still face
other charges for his actions.

O'Donnell also said that while forensics showed that Ms. Williams received at
least one fatal shot from Brelo's gun, he couldn't determine whether the other
fatal shots also came from Brelo. Officers fired a total of 137 shots at the
motorists after Russell's 1979 Chevy Malibu backfired in front of police
headquarters, sparking a dramatic chase. Brelo's actions came after the Malibu
had come to a stop. Neither of the victims was armed.

The Justice Department report, which was in part sparked by the Brelo case,
determined late last year that Cleveland police had for years been engaged in a
pattern of using excessive force against citizens and violating people's civil
rights in other ways.

It's not clear how people will react to the verdict. Protests against police
brutality have roiled the US since the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson,
Mo., last year. The Monitor reported on Saturday that the "hands up, don't
shoot" movement has been used by protesters as far away as Jordan.

Judge O'Donnell decided to read the verdict on Saturday to reduce the risk of
protests. The judge said he was well aware of the tensions around allegations of
police brutality and a sense among many Americans that there's not enough
justice for unarmed people killed by police officers. O'Donnell specifically
cited the Tamir Rice case as he read his verdict.

"Every week, I pass a mountain of stuffed animals left in memory of a
12-year-old that many people believe was murdered by the police," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (92%); ACQUITTAL (91%);
INDICTMENTS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SHOOTINGS
(90%); VERDICTS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); RIOTS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); GRAND
JURY (89%); JUDGES (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); FIREARMS (89%); FORENSICS
(78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%);
MANSLAUGHTER (78%); FELONIES (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%);
SKATEBOARDING (73%); EXTREME SPORTS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); MEN (72%);
VOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); SHOPLIFTING (54%)

PUB-SUBJECT:

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (56%) OHIO, USA (94%);
WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2015


                              10 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                Copyright 2015 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            June 17, 2015 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Southeast Ga. sheriff killed during chase

BYLINE: Tyler Estep; Staff



HIGHLIGHT: Montgomery sheriff lost control of his vehicle.

 BODY:

Montgomery County Sheriff Ladson O'Connor was killed early Tuesday when he
crashed while pursuing an armed suspect, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation
said.

The suspect later surrendered after exchanging gunfire with authorities.

GBI spokeswoman Sherry Lang said the incident began around midnight in Toombs
County, a rural community about three hours southeast of Atlanta. Deputies there
were assisting a motorist when the driver of another vehicle --- believed to be
35-year-old Jim Edward Lowery --- "attempted to leave the area" after spotting
them, Lang said.

That piqued the deputies' interest and they attempted to initiate a traffic
stop. Lowery fled, authorities said, and O'Connor joined in the chase when it
continued on Ga. 56 into nearby Montgomery County.

"During the pursuit, Sheriff O'Connor lost control of his vehicle, wrecked and
was dead on the scene," Lang said. Montgomery County is about two hours
southeast of Atlanta in southeast Georgia.

What may have led O'Connor to lose control was unclear, though Lang said either
Lowery or 36-year-old passenger Nicole Dixie Best fired shots at officers during
the chase. An autopsy was being performed at the GBI's crime lab in Savannah,
Lang said.

The chase ended near the town of Uvalda, where state troopers had placed "stop
sticks" on the road, Lang said. Lowery crashed his vehicle and managed to escape
--- for a few hours, at least.

At about 9:30 a.m. Tuesday, Georgia State Patrol SWAT team members located
Lowery in McNatt Falls, a town in Montgomery County. Lowery surrendered after an
exchange of gunfire.

"Lowery had sustained an injury to his leg but it is unknown at this time if the
injury is a result of the shooting or if it occurred while he was on the run
from law enforcement," Lang said.

Lowery was arrested and charged with three counts of aggravated assault on a
police officer and one count of fleeing and attempting to elude a police officer
. Best, the passenger in his vehicle, was also detained and "is being held in
the Montgomery County jail while warrants are being obtained for her arrest,"
Lang said.

It was unclear what charges Best will face.

The GBI is investigating both the chase and the officer-involved shooting that
occurred during Lowery's apprehension, Lang said.

O'Connor, 42, had served as the sheriff of Montgomery County since January 2013.
He leaves behind a wife and four children.

Messages left with the Montgomery County Sheriff's Office on Tuesday were not
immediately returned. Several metro Atlanta agencies took to social media
Tuesday to express their condolences.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with the family of Montgomery County Sheriff
Ladson O'Connor and with the Montgomery County Sheriff's Office," the Gwinnett
County Sheriff's Office wrote on Facebook.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHERIFFS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%);
GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
FORENSICS (78%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY
(78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); WOUNDS &
INJURIES (68%); CORRECTIONS (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (78%) GEORGIA, USA (94%)
UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015


                              11 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                Copyright 2015 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            June 17, 2015 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Southeast Ga. sheriff killed during chase

BYLINE: Tyler Estep; Staff



HIGHLIGHT: Montgomery sheriff lost control of his vehicle.

 BODY:

Montgomery County Sheriff Ladson O'Connor was killed early Tuesday when he
crashed while pursuing an armed suspect, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation
said.

The suspect later surrendered after exchanging gunfire with authorities.

GBI spokeswoman Sherry Lang said the incident began around midnight in Toombs
County, a rural community about three hours southeast of Atlanta. Deputies there
were assisting a motorist when the driver of another vehicle --- believed to be
35-year-old Jim Edward Lowery --- "attempted to leave the area" after spotting
them, Lang said.

That piqued the deputies' interest and they attempted to initiate a traffic
stop. Lowery fled, authorities said, and O'Connor joined in the chase when it
continued on Ga. 56 into nearby Montgomery County.

"During the pursuit, Sheriff O'Connor lost control of his vehicle, wrecked and
was dead on the scene," Lang said. Montgomery County is about two hours
southeast of Atlanta in southeast Georgia.

What may have led O'Connor to lose control was unclear, though Lang said either
Lowery or 36-year-old passenger Nicole Dixie Best fired shots at officers during
the chase. An autopsy was being performed at the GBI's crime lab in Savannah,
Lang said.

The chase ended near the town of Uvalda, where state troopers had placed "stop
sticks" on the road, Lang said. Lowery crashed his vehicle and managed to escape
--- for a few hours, at least.

At about 9:30 a.m. Tuesday, Georgia State Patrol SWAT team members located
Lowery in McNatt Falls, a town in Montgomery County. Lowery surrendered after an
exchange of gunfire.

"Lowery had sustained an injury to his leg but it is unknown at this time if the
injury is a result of the shooting or if it occurred while he was on the run
from law enforcement," Lang said.

Lowery was arrested and charged with three counts of aggravated assault on a
police officer and one count of fleeing and attempting to elude a police officer
. Best, the passenger in his vehicle, was also detained and "is being held in
the Montgomery County jail while warrants are being obtained for her arrest,"
Lang said.

It was unclear what charges Best will face.

The GBI is investigating both the chase and the officer-involved shooting that
occurred during Lowery's apprehension, Lang said.

O'Connor, 42, had served as the sheriff of Montgomery County since January 2013.
He leaves behind a wife and four children.

Messages left with the Montgomery County Sheriff's Office on Tuesday were not
immediately returned. Several metro Atlanta agencies took to social media
Tuesday to express their condolences.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with the family of Montgomery County Sheriff
Ladson O'Connor and with the Montgomery County Sheriff's Office," the Gwinnett
County Sheriff's Office wrote on Facebook.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHERIFFS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%);
GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
FORENSICS (78%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY
(78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); WOUNDS &
INJURIES (68%); CORRECTIONS (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (78%) GEORGIA, USA (94%)
UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015


                              12 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 The Post Register
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Idaho Falls Post Register

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Local law officers involved in shooting

BYLINE: POST REGISTER, Writer

DATELINE: Idaho Falls, ID

BODY:


Law enforcement officers from Bonneville County Sheriff's Office and Idaho Falls
Police were involved in an officer-involved shooting at 1:20 a.m. today.

A Sheriff's Office news release did not say who fired the shots or how many
shots were fired. The male suspect the officers encountered is in stable
condition at Eastern Idaho Medical Center. The release did not say if the
suspect was armed.

Bonneville County Sheriff's deputies were dispatched at 1:03 a.m. to a 911 call
at a home in northern Bonneville County in reference to a neighbor finding a
pregnant woman crying, the release said. A male had hit the woman and left the
area in a vehicle.

A deputy located the suspect's vehicle and performed a traffic stop at 1:20 a.m.
in the parking lot of the Exxon Gas Station on Yellowstone and North Woodruff.

Officers from the IFPD also arrived at the scene. During the course of the
traffic stop the suspect was uncooperative with law enforcement. Officers used
"a less than lethal device and firearms in the confrontation," the release said.

The Southeast Idaho critical incident team was called in to investigate the
shooting. Investigators from Rexburg Police Department, Idaho State Police,
Pocatello Police Department, Jefferson County Sheriff's Office, Madison County
Sheriff's Office, Bingham County Sheriff's Office, Bannock County Sheriff's
Office, and Power County Sheriff's Office are on scene.

The Rexburg Police Departments is the lead agency in this event, the release
said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); DEATHS &
INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
SHOOTINGS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: POCATELLO, ID, USA (79%) IDAHO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015


                              13 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 The Post Register
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Idaho Falls Post Register

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Local law officers involved in shooting

BYLINE: POST REGISTER, Writer

DATELINE: Idaho Falls, ID

BODY:


Law enforcement officers from Bonneville County Sheriff's Office and Idaho Falls
Police were involved in an officer-involved shooting at 1:20 a.m. today.

A Sheriff's Office news release did not say who fired the shots or how many
shots were fired. The male suspect the officers encountered is in stable
condition at Eastern Idaho Medical Center. The release did not say if the
suspect was armed.

Bonneville County Sheriff's deputies were dispatched at 1:03 a.m. to a 911 call
at a home in northern Bonneville County in reference to a neighbor finding a
pregnant woman crying, the release said. A male had hit the woman and left the
area in a vehicle.

A deputy located the suspect's vehicle and performed a traffic stop at 1:20 a.m.
in the parking lot of the Exxon Gas Station on Yellowstone and North Woodruff.

Officers from the IFPD also arrived at the scene. During the course of the
traffic stop the suspect was uncooperative with law enforcement. Officers used
"a less than lethal device and firearms in the confrontation," the release said.

The Southeast Idaho critical incident team was called in to investigate the
shooting. Investigators from Rexburg Police Department, Idaho State Police,
Pocatello Police Department, Jefferson County Sheriff's Office, Madison County
Sheriff's Office, Bingham County Sheriff's Office, Bannock County Sheriff's
Office, and Power County Sheriff's Office are on scene.

The Rexburg Police Departments is the lead agency in this event, the release
said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); DEATHS &
INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
SHOOTINGS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: POCATELLO, ID, USA (79%) IDAHO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015


                              14 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                                US Official News

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday

LENGTH: 4907  words

HEADLINE: New Jersey: Complete list of 2015 Monmouth County 200 Club awards

DATELINE: Trenton

BODY:

 Monmouth County, The State of New Jersey has issued the following news release:

Here is the complete list of award recipients with a synopsis of each incident,
provided by the 200 Club of Monmouth County.

PLACQUE

Neptune Township Police Department
Quality of Life Unit

The 200 Club is recognizing the Neptune Township Police Department Quality of
Life Unit for their outstanding assistance with the following agencies in
fighting crime: Monmouth County Prosecutors Office Narcotic Strike Force,
Monmouth County Prosecutors Office Tactical Narcotics Team, Monmouth County
Prosecutors Office Major Crimes Division, The Drug Enforcement Administration
(DEA) and The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

This unit was responsible for the following statistics:
o Eight vehicle search warrants
o Total arrests: 588
o Total criminal charges: 1015
o Total warrants: 479
o Total municipal ordinance violations: 123
o Seized U.S. CurrencyL $20,585.00
o Seized four vehicles
o Seized four handguns

For their efforts, the 200 Club recognizes the Neptune Township Police
Department. Accepting this recognition on their behalf is Lt. William Kirchner.

COMMENDATION

City of Long Branch Fire Department
Division Commander Captain Tim Somers
Firefighter Henry Cioffi
Firefighter Nick Saffioti

On the afternoon of Aug. 8, 2014, Engine Co. #9 & Division Commander #2570,
responded to the Borough of Monmouth Beach on a mutual aid request for a
structural fire on Ice House Road in Monmouth Beach. The fire was on the third
floor and partial attic area of a three-story structure. Volunteer firefighter
Harris fell through the 3rd floor area that had burnt through and was dangling
between two burned out floor beams. Firefighter Harris then yelled out a mayday,
which was answered by firefighters Henry "Skip" Cioffi, Nick Saffioti and
Division Commander Captain Tim Somers, who quickly extricated the trapped
fireman from the floor beams without causing any further injuries to the trapped
firefighter.

Keyport Police Department
Sergeant Mark Hafner
Patrolman Robert McCartin
Patrolman Joseph Ruth

On January 30, 2014 the Keyport Police Department received a call from the
Veteran's Administration in Connecticut reporting a retired veteran was going to
commit suicide with a gun. Officers responded to the residence and could not
locate the subject. Through investigative efforts by the dispatcher and
officers, the suspect was located by his cellphone at the ShopRite in Hazlet.
Officers responded to the area and located the subject. Sgt. Mark Hafner,
Officers Joseph Ruth and Robert McCartin were able to negotiate with the
subject, bringing a peaceful resolution to the situation, recovering a handgun
and more than 100 rounds of ammunition.

Sea Girt Police Department
Patrolman William C. Joule

Patrolman Joule responded to a local business for a report of a woman passed
out. Upon arrival Ptl. Joule immediately assessed the situation and began life
saving efforts that included CPR and placement of the defibrillator. Under
normal circumstances, first responders are relieved once the first aid arrives
and takes over care, however, Ptl. Joule remained with the victim and continued
management of the defibrillator and never stopped chest compressions. The medics
on the scene advised the chief of police that Pt. Joule's outstanding efforts
resulted in this woman walking out of the hospital a short time later. The
victim made a full recovery.

Spring Lake Heights Police Department
Patrolman Ray Kwiatkowski
Patrolman Casey Willlms

On May 26, 2014, Patrolman Raymond Kwiatkowski and Patrolman Casey Willms
exhibited outstanding service by performing life saving actions that resulted in
saving the life of a Spring Lake Heights resident. The 18-year-old victim was
successfully resuscitated by the two officers after he went into a state of
respiratory arrest at the Heights Manor apartment complex.

Neptune Township Police Department
Lieutenant William Kirchner
Sergeant Phil Seidle
Sergeant Michael Allen
Sergeant Jose Arce
Detective Matt Webb
Officer Jesse Dallago
Officer Kaan William
Officer JaVaughn Rogers
Police Officer Matt Kocen
Police Officer Mysson Ledet
Police Officer Doug Mattia
Police Officer James MacConchie
SLEO II Edward Homiek

On Oct. 1, 2014, members of the Neptune Township Police Department Patrol
Division, Quality of Life Street Crimes Unit and Detective Bureau responded to a
reported armed robbery/shots fired call in Neptune Township. The above officers
responded and immediately secured the scene. They collectively worked together
in determining what occurred by identifying victims, and locating the accused
responsible for the armed robbery and shooting. Evidence was obtained by witness
statements that allowed officers on the scene to make eight arrests. Officers
located evidence including a loaded and jammed sawed off shotgun, stun gun,
ammunition, narcotics, drug paraphernalia and evidence of previous burglaries
and thefts.

Neptune Township Police Department
Police Officer Kris Daly

On Jan. 14, 2015, Officer Daly responded to a first aid call. Daly and Neptune
First Aid members assessed the patient, his current health situation and because
paramedics were unavailable at the time, they determined the patient would have
to be transported to Jersey Shore Medical Center immediately. During transport
the patient had a seizure and became unresponsive, and CPR was initiated. Daly
and first aid members continued CPR compressions in the ambulance for the
duration of the trip to the hospital. At JSUMC, he was taken to the trauma unit
where the patient regained his pulse and was listed in stable but critical
condition. Officer Daly's assistance and relentless efforts with CPR
compressions were critical in the ability to regain his pulse at JSUMC.

Neptune Township Police Department
Detective Jason Petillo

On Feb. 21, 2014, patrols responded to a reported burglary in Shark River Hills.
The victims indicated their house was forcibly entered, and jewelry and cash was
stolen. Det. Petillo was assigned to investigate the incident. During his
investigation, Det. Petillo located two pieces of jewelry believed to be the
victim's at a local gold-buying establishment. The person identified as selling
the jewelry was a known drug addict. In addition to collecting the suspected
stolen jewelry, Det. Petillo interviewed the jeweler who recalled an unknown
male who remained outside. Petillo responded to another pawn shop which revealed
video of an attempt to sell items by the suspects. No sale was made, but video
evidence was gathered. Neptune City Police located one of the suspects and
detained him. An interview was conducted which implicated others. Through
countless searches of pawn shops and jewelry establishments in Monmouth and
Ocean counties, Det. Petillo used interviews and information gathered to
identify an additional subject who had some of the stolen jewelry within her
possession. Approximately six suspects were eventually arrested and charged as a
result of Det. Petillo's relentless efforts, with the assistance of several
police departments: Asbury Park, Belmar, Brick, Lake Como, Neptune City and Toms
River Police Department.

Asbury Park Police Department
Police Officer Sean DeShader
Police Officer Joseph Spallina

On April 18, 2014, Street Crime officers Sean De Shader and Joseph Spallina were
on patrol in an unmarked vehicle on the 1300 block of Monroe Avene. While
traveling West on Monroe Avenue, a green vehicle with two occupants, with
multiple motor vehicle violations, and heading in the opposite direction was
observed. DeShader also recognized the front seat passenger as a documented
Crips gang member, involved in numerous narcotics and weapons offenses. After
initiating a motor-vehicle stop on the vehicle, Officer De Shader located a
handgun hidden on the front seat passenger's person, which was found to be
loaded with 10 rounds, including one hollow point round. After a search incident
to arrest, the officers also recovered five Xanax tablets, a butterfly knife,
one bag of crack/cocaine, four marijuana cigarettes, one bundle of heroin and
$925 cash. After transporting the subjects to police headquarters, Officer
Cincilla further located 1 brick of heroin stashed within the rear of the patrol
car by one of the subjects.

Asbury Park Police Department
Police Officer Thomas Gogan
Police Officer Joseph Leon
Police Officer JayVon Britt
Police Officer Francis Sangi

On Nov. 30, 2014, Officers Gogan, Leon and Britt were assigned patrol duties in
Asbury Park. At 4:44 a.m., Gogan pulled over a vehicle at Emory Street and
Summerfield Avenue for an illegally altered license plate. The officer
approached the vehicle and immediately noticed an odor of raw marijuana
emanating from the vehicle. Officers Leon and Sangi then arrived on scene to
assist. The driver of the vehicle was found to have a warrant and was placed
under arrest. The subject then agreed to sign a Consent to Search and Miranda
Form. Officer Gogan was able to locate CDS Marijuana, Paraphernalia, more than
$1,000, large amounts of assorted jewelry, and a 9mm semi-automatic handgun in
the glove compartment. It was later discovered that these items were proceeds
from a home invasion in Shrewsbury prior to Officer Gogan's traffic stop.

Asbury Park Police Department
Police Officer Lorenzo Pettway
Police Officer Joseph Spallina
Police Officer Barry Hollo

On May 3, 2014, Street Crimes officers Lorenzo Pettway, Joseph Spallina and
Barry Hollo were on patrol in an unmarked vehicle in the area of Asbury Park
Gardens, in response to recent shootings in the area, as well as complaints from
residents in reference to gang activity. While driving past Building B, Officer
Pettway observed an individual wearing a puffy jacket with a hooded sweatshirt
pulled tightly around his head. Officer Pettway found this to be unusual due to
the warm weather. After stopping their vehicle to conduct a field interview, the
individual proceeded to flee on foot from the officers while clutching his front
waist area. After a brief pursuit, the subject was apprehended and questioned
about his decision to run from the officers. Officer Pettway then retraced the
path of the pursuit and discovered the subject had discarded a loaded and
defaced revolver in shrubbery along the pursuit route. The subject was then
transported and booked and found to have two active warrants.

COMMENDATION/MERIT

Neptune Township Police Department
Police Officer JaVaughn Rogers
Police Officer Louis Berardi

On Feb. 21, 2014, Patrol Officers Rogers and Berardi were assigned to the
Quality of Life Street Crime Unit and were patrolling the High Crime and Drug
Distribution area of Monroe Avene and Whitesville Road in Neptune Township.
Officer Rogers observed a suspect acting suspiciously and identified actions
leading him to believe the suspect was armed. Officer Rogers and Berardi stopped
to conduct an interdiction and the suspect fled on foot from the officers.
Officer Rogers chased the suspect and observed him throw a loaded chrome .38
caliber revolver to the ground. Officers Rogers apprehended the accused after a
brief foot chase and placed him under arrest. The handgun was recovered at the
scene.

Eatontown Police & Fire Department
MERIT
Sergeant Dave Brown
Patrolman Ryan Braswell
Firefighter Mike Sullivan
2nd Lt. Nicholas Craig
Firefighter Rory Green
Asst. Chief Aaron Lay
1st Asst. Chief Kenneth Sneath
2nd Asst. Chief Tanner Shea
1st. Asst. Chief Bruce McDonald
COMMENDATION
Ex-Chief Jeff Myskowski
Ex-Chief Anthony Gaetano
Firefighter Dane Richards Jr.
Probationary Firefighter Matt Hamilton

On April 10, 2015, the police department was called to fire on the third floor
of a three floor apartment complex containing 42 separate apartments. Sgt. David
Brown was first to arrive. After calling for backup and expedited fire and first
aid, Sgt. Brown entered the burning structure and proceeded to the third floor
in an attempt to get to the victims. Sgt. Brown and the building super crawled
through the smoke filled third floor instructing residents out of the building
and attempted to get to the apartment(s) that were actually on fire. They were
able to get the residents of all but two apartments out to safety with the help
of Officers Ryan Braswell and Mike Sullivan, who had arrived minutes later and
had also entered the building heading to the third floor as well. Before heading
into the building Officer Sullivan encountered a family trapped in their third
floor apartment due to flames and smoke blocking their exit into the corridors.
He instructed them to put their heads out the window to breathe fresh air until
a ladder arrived. Ex-Chief Jeff Myskowski, Ex-Chief Anthony Gaetano, Firefighter
Dane Richards Jr. and Probationary Firefighter Matt Hamilton worked together to
remove the residents out of the window, who were under heavy smoke and heat
conditions . A search was conducted by 2nd Lt. Nicholas Craig, Firefighter Rory
Green and TFFC #1 Assistant Chief Aaron Lay. They found an unconscious victim,
and removed her from the third floor using a portable stretcher.

PLACQUE/MERIT

NEPTUNE TWP. POLICE DEPARTMENT
Police Officer Aaron Lay
Police Officer Eric Chunn
Police Officer Shaun Hubbard

On Jan. 28, 2014, Officer Lay noticed a suspicious vehicle matching the
description of a vehicle observed at a shooting scene in Neptune Township a day
earlier. Officer Lay followed and attempted to initiate a motor-vehicle stop for
motor-vehicle violations. During his pursuit, the vehicle refused to stop and
attempted to elude Officer Lay so evidence could be discarded. Officer Lay
followed protocol notifying supervisors of the pursuit and documented his
observations to his shift commander. With the assistance of Asbury Park Police
officers and 11 - 7 a.m. patrol officers from Neptune Police, the vehicle was
stopped and two accused were taken into custody. Both suspects possessed ski
masks, cellular phones and currency was seized. Officer Chunn was directed to
canvass the route driven by Officer Lay to look for discarded contraband.
Officer Lay was contacted by Officer Chunn and advised a loaded Colt .38 caliber
revolver was recovered and believed to be thrown from vehicle. Both suspects
denied ownership of the weapon but admitted to being in the vehicles at the
shooting scene on Milton Avenue the day earlier witnessed by Officer Hubbard.
Both suspects had outstanding warrants and were certain persons not to possess
weapons. The recovery methods used by Officer Chunn in recovering the weapon
will assist with future prosecution against the accused in this ongoing
investigation. A resident of Sewall Avenue exited and observed a loaded black
and silver .45 caliber semi-automatic handgun on her front lawn. This was
another location noted by Officer Lay of suspicious actions by the suspect
vehicle earlier that day.

MERIT

Monmouth County Prosecutor's Officer
Detective Richard Chapman

On Nov. 12, 2014, Detective Chapman was driving to work on Route 33 in Freehold
Township when he observed a male in his 50s clinging to the outer rail of a four
story overpass. It appeared that the male was preparing to jump to his death.
Detective Chapman immediately turned around, parked his vehicle and approached
the male on foot. As he approached the male, the man told Detective Chapman that
he had nothing to live for and he was going to kill himself. Due to Detective
Chapman's narcotic training and experience, he immediately associated the male's
violent trembling and shaking to be related to narcotics and/or alcohol
withdrawal. Detective Chapman calmly engaged the male in conversation and
convinced him that his life was worth living and not to jump. Detective Chapman
called the Freehold Township Police Department while he continued to talk and
comfort the male. Subsequently, the male allowed Detective Chapman to physically
pull him to safety. For his effort Detective Chapman receives a merit award.
Detective Chapman has requested a donation be made in his name to his favorite
charity.

Neptune Township Police Department
Police Officer Aaron Lay

On July 17, 2014, Officer Lay initiated a motor-vehicle stop for suspicious
activity in a known high crime and drug distribution area. Officer Lay conducted
an interdiction with the occupants and obtained identities of both. Sgt.
Schembri and Officer Schuster arrived as back-up while warrant checks were
performed on both. During his investigation the operator of the vehicle was
found to have outstanding warrants for his arrest. The accused was removed from
the vehicle, placed under arrest, and handcuffed. The accused was searched by
Officer Lay and a loaded and cocked .45 caliber handgun was found in his
waistband. The weapon was secured properly and preserved for evidential value.
Both were transported to head quarters separately and the vehicle was seized.

Neptune Township Police Department
Police Officer James MacConchie

On Dec. 29, 2014, Officer MacConchie responded to a report of a medical pull
cord alarm at Sebastian Villa. Upon his arrival and after questioning the
occupant of the alarmed apartment, Officer MacConchie became suspicious of the
occupants demeanor and appearance. The suspicious incident led to a possible
homicide in Maryland. The Neptune resident was held in the Neptune Township
Police Department, where he was later charged with homicide in Maryland. Officer
MacConchie is receiving this Merit Award for his performance. He demonstrated
clearly why no call should be considered routine.

Asbury Park Police Department
Police Officer Lorenzo Pettway
Police Officer Sean DeShader
Police Officer Joseph Spallina

On October 13, 2014, Street Crimes Officer Lorenzo Pettway met with a
confidential informant who informed him there was an individual selling heroin
and prescription pills in the area. Officer Pettway recalled from previous
narcotics investigations an individual which he knew to go by the nickname
given. After speaking with the informant, Officer Pettway and fellow Street
Crimes officers Sean De Shader and Joseph Spallina located the individual
sitting on his front porch. After being advised that the subject had an act ATF
warrant, the officers responded back to the residence but were unable to locate
the subject. A short time later, Officer Pettway met with a confidential source
who informed him the subject was now inside an aptartment on Myrtle Ave. The
source also stated the subject was observed with a large amount of CDS, as well
as a silver handgun in his waistband. Officers immediately responded to the
residence and were given consent to enter. The officer located the subject
sitting amongst a group of other guests and located a silver hand gun hidden
amongst the pillows of the couch. The subject was then placed under arrest and
discovered to have one bag of marijuana, 22 Percocet pills, three bags of
crack/cocaine and $235 cash on his person.

Asbury Park Police Department
Police Officer Sean DeShader
Police Officer Lorenzo Pettway
Police Officer Joseph Spallina

On Nov. 11, 2014, street crime officers Deshader, Pettway and Spallina were on
foot patrol in Asbury Park village. The officers in the street crime units
received information that several shots were fired earlier that day. At 9:17
p.m., while in the area, Officers Deshader and Love attempted to stop a subject
who was a confirmed Blood gang member. The subject was on foot and seen pointing
a handgun at a car. The subject took flight on foot and in doing so, discarded a
loaded .380 auto handgun. Officer Love was able to retrieve the handgun and
Officer Pettway was able to apprehend the subject on foot.

Aberdeen Township Police Department
Sergeant Michael Lasko
Police Officer Bart Szulczynski

On Feb. 3, 2015, Officer Bart Szulczynski was dispatched to a domestic violence
incident at a residence on County Road. Upon arrival he found that a 38-year-old
male subject had taken his 2-year-old son and a knife and locked himself in the
bedroom, refusing to come out. The subject, an Iraq war veteran diagnosed with
PTSD, had told his wife he would harm anyone who tried to take the child away
from him. Although very agitated and screaming that he feared the child would be
taken from him, he told the officers he would only use the knife on himself.
Officer Szulczynski and Sgt. Michael Lasko were able to calm the individual to
the point that he opened the door and Officer Szulczynski was able to take the
child to his mother. Sgt. Lasko secured the knife and both officers were able to
peacefully restrain the individual and transport him to Bayshore Community
Hospital for a crisis evaluation.

Spring Lake Police Department
Patrolman William Kelly
Patrolman Emmett Smith

On April 4, 2015, at approximately 08:30 a.m., radio dispatch received
information that there was an overturned boat and one-to-two occupants were in
distress. Patrolman Kelly, Smith, Chief Kerr, SO Cuttrell and Sgt. Moran
responded to the shoreline to obtain a better vantage point. Officers observed
an overturned aluminum boat approximately 75 yards off the shoreline. A subject
was in distress and was attempting to hold on to the boat to remain afloat.
Patrolman Kelly and Smith removed their gun belt, ballistic vest and entered the
water. As Patrolman Kelly swam towards the victim, he observed that the victim
had drifted away from his boat. Kelly eventually approached the victim's
location in the lake, and observed that the victim was holding onto a safety
vest and that it was not safely secured to his body. As Kelly neared the victim,
at approximately 5 feet away, Kelly instructed the victim to remain calm and
that officers were going to get him safely back to shore. The victim confirmed
he was the only person in the boat. Patrolman Kelly and Smith safely brought the
victim onshore to a waiting ambulance provided by the Spring Lake First Aid
Squad (SLFA).

New Jersey State Police
Detective II Giuseppe S. Diodati
Trooper Jared M. Boyd

During the first half of 2014, Detective Diodati and Trooper Boyd investigated a
series of burglaries that occurred in the New Jersey State Police Hamilton
Sub-Station patrol area. These burglaries, 19 in total, resulted in a loss to
victims of approximately $190,000 worth of property. As a result of their
investigation, Detective Diodati and Trooper Boyd identified two suspects who
were suspected of committing not only the aforementioned burglaries, but
additional burglaries in Monmouth, Ocean and Burlington counties. Their efforts
resulted in the return of approximately $25,000 worth of property to its
rightful owners. These efforts also solidified the case against the suspects by
providing definite proof of the fact they were pawning stolen goods in multiple
locations. It should be noted the suspects were still actively involved in
committing burglaries at the time of their arrests. The efforts of Detective
Diodati and Trooper Boyd, in addition to solving 30 total burglaries in multiple
jurisdictions, prevented an untold number of crimes from occurring.

United States Marshal Service
Police Officer Brian Migliorisi

In 2014 while serving as a Task Force Officer with the United States Marshals
Service NY/NJ RFTF - Trenton Division, Monmouth Team, Asbury Park Police Officer
Brian Migliorisi has played an extremely important role in the success of the
unit. Officer Migliorisi was recalled to patrol duties full time while still
working with the task force on a part time basis. This situation did not deter
Officer Migliorisi from continuing to lead numerous investigations which led to
the arrest of several violent offenders wanted throughout Monmouth County. The
following are an example of some investigations led by Officer Migliorisi: A
suspect was wanted by the Asbury Park Police Department on charges of Possession
of a Handgun, Hollow-Point Ammunition, Stolen Firearm, Resisting by Flight, and
Endangering the Welfare of a Child. Through a diligent investigation led by
Officer Migliorisi, members of the task force arrested the suspect inside an
apartment in Asbury Park on 08/05/2014. Another suspect wanted by the Asbury
Park Police Department for several Home Invasions and two (2) counts of
Attempted Murder. During this investigation, Officer Migliorisi pursued numerous
leads in the US as well as the country of Jamaica. Further investigation
conducted by Officer Migliorisi resulted in identifying travel plans for the
suspect which ultimately led to his arrest upon arrival in NYC on 12/14/2014.
For his efforts Officer Migliorisi is being given a merit award.

United States Marshal Service
Randy Morgan

In 2014 during his assignment with the U.S. Marshals Service NY/NJ RFTF -
Trenton Division, Monmouth Team, Monmouth County Sheriff's Officer Randy Morgan
has led and participated in the investigation and arrest of more than 290
violent fugitives throughout Monmouth County. These fugitives were wanted for
various violent offenses, including murder, weapons offenses, bank robbery,
sexual assault and robbery. During the course of 2014, Officer Morgan assisted
with seizing 12 firearms and a variety of illegal controlled dangerous
substances. Officer Morgan has led several high-profile investigations, which
led to arrests including a wanted suspect by the Moores County Sheriff's Office
(North Carolina) on charges of Murder. Officer Morgan led a complex
investigation to locate the suspect which resulted in the suspect's arrest at a
location in Long Branch on Jan. 7, 2014. Another suspect wanted by the Eatontown
Police Department on charges of aggravated sexual assault of a minor. Again,
Officer Morgan led a complex investigation, resulting in the arrest of a suspect
after a brief foot pursuit in Howell.

COMMENDATION/VALOR

Middletown Township Fire Department
COMMENDATION
Firefighter James Phillips
Firefighter Michael Chenoweth
Firefighter Mathew Deickman
VALOR
Firefighter Jack Hueston
Firefighter Christian Burbank
Firefighter John Waltz

On Nov. 14, 2014 members of the Middletown Township Fire Department were
dispatched to Ocean Boulevard in the Leonardo section of Middletown on a
reported structure fire with a possible entrapment. Upon arrival heavy fire was
visible coming from a two-story wood frame structure involving both the first
and second floors, totally blocking the front entrance door. Firefighters Jack
Hueston, while conducting a 360 assessment of the scene, was advised that there
was someone trapped inside the burning structure and was yelling for help. At
this time Firefighters Hueston, Christian Burbank and John Waltz began to
conduct a Vent-Enter-Search (VES) operation of two windows on the first floor.
This was the area that had been pointed out earlier, as the last place that
calls for help were coming from. After venting and clearing the two windows
heavy black turbulent smoke vented from each window filling the both openings
completely. Firefighters Burbank and Waltz searched the interior below each
window sill from the exterior with negative results. Several seconds later the
smoke condition raised slightly allowing firefighters Hueston, Burbank and Waltz
to enter to conduct a search. The unconscious victim was located lying on the
floor approximately 10 to 12 feet from the entry window. Firefighters Michael
Chenoweth, Matthew Deickmann and James Phillips partially entered the burning
structure from the window, and after several failed attempts to lift the victim
out, a rescue strap was placed around the victims upper torso to provide added
leverage to get the victim up and out to a safe location. After removal of the
victim by rescuers, they began to administer basic life support techniques.

COMMENDATION/VALOR

Asbury Park Police Department
Police Officer Johny Washington
Police Officer Carl Christie
Police Officer Anthony Butler

On Sept. 29th, 2014, Patrol Officers Johny Washington, Carl Christie and Anthony
Butler were assigned patrol duties in Asbury Park. At 9:20 a.m., Officers
Washington and Christie responded to a disorderly persons call on Main Street.
When the Officers arrived, a subject brandished a steak knife and stabbed
Officer Christie in multiple areas, such as the wrist, finger and vest. The
subject reached for Officer Washington's gun, which the officer then shot the
attacker once. The subject was then handcuffed and Officer Butler was the next
to arrive. Officer Butler helped secure the crime scene and tend to both
officers. Both Officers Washington and Christie were taken to the local hospital
and later released.

VALOR

Neptune Township Police Department
Police Officer Sarai Lavandero

On April 7, 2014, Officer Lavandero responded to a report of a fight and shots
fired in Neptune Township. Approaching the immediate area, Officer Lavandero
observed a suspect acting suspiciously and identified actions leading her to
believe the suspect was armed and involved in the shooting. Officer Lavandero
stopped to conduct an interdiction and the suspect immediately fled on foot.
Officer Lavandero exited her vehicle and gave chase, calling out the suspect's
direction of travel. She continued to chase the suspect and observed him throw a
backpack to the ground. Officer Lavandero chased the suspect and was able to
grab him scaling a fence between yards. The suspect resisted arrest and was
taken to the ground, handcuffed behind his back and secured. The backpack was
recovered and protruding from it was a loaded .380 caliber handgun.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

PUB-SUBJECT: National

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2015


                              15 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                                US Official News

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday

LENGTH: 4907  words

HEADLINE: New Jersey: Complete list of 2015 Monmouth County 200 Club awards

DATELINE: Trenton

BODY:

 Monmouth County, The State of New Jersey has issued the following news release:

Here is the complete list of award recipients with a synopsis of each incident,
provided by the 200 Club of Monmouth County.

PLACQUE

Neptune Township Police Department
Quality of Life Unit

The 200 Club is recognizing the Neptune Township Police Department Quality of
Life Unit for their outstanding assistance with the following agencies in
fighting crime: Monmouth County Prosecutors Office Narcotic Strike Force,
Monmouth County Prosecutors Office Tactical Narcotics Team, Monmouth County
Prosecutors Office Major Crimes Division, The Drug Enforcement Administration
(DEA) and The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

This unit was responsible for the following statistics:
o Eight vehicle search warrants
o Total arrests: 588
o Total criminal charges: 1015
o Total warrants: 479
o Total municipal ordinance violations: 123
o Seized U.S. CurrencyL $20,585.00
o Seized four vehicles
o Seized four handguns

For their efforts, the 200 Club recognizes the Neptune Township Police
Department. Accepting this recognition on their behalf is Lt. William Kirchner.

COMMENDATION

City of Long Branch Fire Department
Division Commander Captain Tim Somers
Firefighter Henry Cioffi
Firefighter Nick Saffioti

On the afternoon of Aug. 8, 2014, Engine Co. #9 & Division Commander #2570,
responded to the Borough of Monmouth Beach on a mutual aid request for a
structural fire on Ice House Road in Monmouth Beach. The fire was on the third
floor and partial attic area of a three-story structure. Volunteer firefighter
Harris fell through the 3rd floor area that had burnt through and was dangling
between two burned out floor beams. Firefighter Harris then yelled out a mayday,
which was answered by firefighters Henry "Skip" Cioffi, Nick Saffioti and
Division Commander Captain Tim Somers, who quickly extricated the trapped
fireman from the floor beams without causing any further injuries to the trapped
firefighter.

Keyport Police Department
Sergeant Mark Hafner
Patrolman Robert McCartin
Patrolman Joseph Ruth

On January 30, 2014 the Keyport Police Department received a call from the
Veteran's Administration in Connecticut reporting a retired veteran was going to
commit suicide with a gun. Officers responded to the residence and could not
locate the subject. Through investigative efforts by the dispatcher and
officers, the suspect was located by his cellphone at the ShopRite in Hazlet.
Officers responded to the area and located the subject. Sgt. Mark Hafner,
Officers Joseph Ruth and Robert McCartin were able to negotiate with the
subject, bringing a peaceful resolution to the situation, recovering a handgun
and more than 100 rounds of ammunition.

Sea Girt Police Department
Patrolman William C. Joule

Patrolman Joule responded to a local business for a report of a woman passed
out. Upon arrival Ptl. Joule immediately assessed the situation and began life
saving efforts that included CPR and placement of the defibrillator. Under
normal circumstances, first responders are relieved once the first aid arrives
and takes over care, however, Ptl. Joule remained with the victim and continued
management of the defibrillator and never stopped chest compressions. The medics
on the scene advised the chief of police that Pt. Joule's outstanding efforts
resulted in this woman walking out of the hospital a short time later. The
victim made a full recovery.

Spring Lake Heights Police Department
Patrolman Ray Kwiatkowski
Patrolman Casey Willlms

On May 26, 2014, Patrolman Raymond Kwiatkowski and Patrolman Casey Willms
exhibited outstanding service by performing life saving actions that resulted in
saving the life of a Spring Lake Heights resident. The 18-year-old victim was
successfully resuscitated by the two officers after he went into a state of
respiratory arrest at the Heights Manor apartment complex.

Neptune Township Police Department
Lieutenant William Kirchner
Sergeant Phil Seidle
Sergeant Michael Allen
Sergeant Jose Arce
Detective Matt Webb
Officer Jesse Dallago
Officer Kaan William
Officer JaVaughn Rogers
Police Officer Matt Kocen
Police Officer Mysson Ledet
Police Officer Doug Mattia
Police Officer James MacConchie
SLEO II Edward Homiek

On Oct. 1, 2014, members of the Neptune Township Police Department Patrol
Division, Quality of Life Street Crimes Unit and Detective Bureau responded to a
reported armed robbery/shots fired call in Neptune Township. The above officers
responded and immediately secured the scene. They collectively worked together
in determining what occurred by identifying victims, and locating the accused
responsible for the armed robbery and shooting. Evidence was obtained by witness
statements that allowed officers on the scene to make eight arrests. Officers
located evidence including a loaded and jammed sawed off shotgun, stun gun,
ammunition, narcotics, drug paraphernalia and evidence of previous burglaries
and thefts.

Neptune Township Police Department
Police Officer Kris Daly

On Jan. 14, 2015, Officer Daly responded to a first aid call. Daly and Neptune
First Aid members assessed the patient, his current health situation and because
paramedics were unavailable at the time, they determined the patient would have
to be transported to Jersey Shore Medical Center immediately. During transport
the patient had a seizure and became unresponsive, and CPR was initiated. Daly
and first aid members continued CPR compressions in the ambulance for the
duration of the trip to the hospital. At JSUMC, he was taken to the trauma unit
where the patient regained his pulse and was listed in stable but critical
condition. Officer Daly's assistance and relentless efforts with CPR
compressions were critical in the ability to regain his pulse at JSUMC.

Neptune Township Police Department
Detective Jason Petillo

On Feb. 21, 2014, patrols responded to a reported burglary in Shark River Hills.
The victims indicated their house was forcibly entered, and jewelry and cash was
stolen. Det. Petillo was assigned to investigate the incident. During his
investigation, Det. Petillo located two pieces of jewelry believed to be the
victim's at a local gold-buying establishment. The person identified as selling
the jewelry was a known drug addict. In addition to collecting the suspected
stolen jewelry, Det. Petillo interviewed the jeweler who recalled an unknown
male who remained outside. Petillo responded to another pawn shop which revealed
video of an attempt to sell items by the suspects. No sale was made, but video
evidence was gathered. Neptune City Police located one of the suspects and
detained him. An interview was conducted which implicated others. Through
countless searches of pawn shops and jewelry establishments in Monmouth and
Ocean counties, Det. Petillo used interviews and information gathered to
identify an additional subject who had some of the stolen jewelry within her
possession. Approximately six suspects were eventually arrested and charged as a
result of Det. Petillo's relentless efforts, with the assistance of several
police departments: Asbury Park, Belmar, Brick, Lake Como, Neptune City and Toms
River Police Department.

Asbury Park Police Department
Police Officer Sean DeShader
Police Officer Joseph Spallina

On April 18, 2014, Street Crime officers Sean De Shader and Joseph Spallina were
on patrol in an unmarked vehicle on the 1300 block of Monroe Avene. While
traveling West on Monroe Avenue, a green vehicle with two occupants, with
multiple motor vehicle violations, and heading in the opposite direction was
observed. DeShader also recognized the front seat passenger as a documented
Crips gang member, involved in numerous narcotics and weapons offenses. After
initiating a motor-vehicle stop on the vehicle, Officer De Shader located a
handgun hidden on the front seat passenger's person, which was found to be
loaded with 10 rounds, including one hollow point round. After a search incident
to arrest, the officers also recovered five Xanax tablets, a butterfly knife,
one bag of crack/cocaine, four marijuana cigarettes, one bundle of heroin and
$925 cash. After transporting the subjects to police headquarters, Officer
Cincilla further located 1 brick of heroin stashed within the rear of the patrol
car by one of the subjects.

Asbury Park Police Department
Police Officer Thomas Gogan
Police Officer Joseph Leon
Police Officer JayVon Britt
Police Officer Francis Sangi

On Nov. 30, 2014, Officers Gogan, Leon and Britt were assigned patrol duties in
Asbury Park. At 4:44 a.m., Gogan pulled over a vehicle at Emory Street and
Summerfield Avenue for an illegally altered license plate. The officer
approached the vehicle and immediately noticed an odor of raw marijuana
emanating from the vehicle. Officers Leon and Sangi then arrived on scene to
assist. The driver of the vehicle was found to have a warrant and was placed
under arrest. The subject then agreed to sign a Consent to Search and Miranda
Form. Officer Gogan was able to locate CDS Marijuana, Paraphernalia, more than
$1,000, large amounts of assorted jewelry, and a 9mm semi-automatic handgun in
the glove compartment. It was later discovered that these items were proceeds
from a home invasion in Shrewsbury prior to Officer Gogan's traffic stop.

Asbury Park Police Department
Police Officer Lorenzo Pettway
Police Officer Joseph Spallina
Police Officer Barry Hollo

On May 3, 2014, Street Crimes officers Lorenzo Pettway, Joseph Spallina and
Barry Hollo were on patrol in an unmarked vehicle in the area of Asbury Park
Gardens, in response to recent shootings in the area, as well as complaints from
residents in reference to gang activity. While driving past Building B, Officer
Pettway observed an individual wearing a puffy jacket with a hooded sweatshirt
pulled tightly around his head. Officer Pettway found this to be unusual due to
the warm weather. After stopping their vehicle to conduct a field interview, the
individual proceeded to flee on foot from the officers while clutching his front
waist area. After a brief pursuit, the subject was apprehended and questioned
about his decision to run from the officers. Officer Pettway then retraced the
path of the pursuit and discovered the subject had discarded a loaded and
defaced revolver in shrubbery along the pursuit route. The subject was then
transported and booked and found to have two active warrants.

COMMENDATION/MERIT

Neptune Township Police Department
Police Officer JaVaughn Rogers
Police Officer Louis Berardi

On Feb. 21, 2014, Patrol Officers Rogers and Berardi were assigned to the
Quality of Life Street Crime Unit and were patrolling the High Crime and Drug
Distribution area of Monroe Avene and Whitesville Road in Neptune Township.
Officer Rogers observed a suspect acting suspiciously and identified actions
leading him to believe the suspect was armed. Officer Rogers and Berardi stopped
to conduct an interdiction and the suspect fled on foot from the officers.
Officer Rogers chased the suspect and observed him throw a loaded chrome .38
caliber revolver to the ground. Officers Rogers apprehended the accused after a
brief foot chase and placed him under arrest. The handgun was recovered at the
scene.

Eatontown Police & Fire Department
MERIT
Sergeant Dave Brown
Patrolman Ryan Braswell
Firefighter Mike Sullivan
2nd Lt. Nicholas Craig
Firefighter Rory Green
Asst. Chief Aaron Lay
1st Asst. Chief Kenneth Sneath
2nd Asst. Chief Tanner Shea
1st. Asst. Chief Bruce McDonald
COMMENDATION
Ex-Chief Jeff Myskowski
Ex-Chief Anthony Gaetano
Firefighter Dane Richards Jr.
Probationary Firefighter Matt Hamilton

On April 10, 2015, the police department was called to fire on the third floor
of a three floor apartment complex containing 42 separate apartments. Sgt. David
Brown was first to arrive. After calling for backup and expedited fire and first
aid, Sgt. Brown entered the burning structure and proceeded to the third floor
in an attempt to get to the victims. Sgt. Brown and the building super crawled
through the smoke filled third floor instructing residents out of the building
and attempted to get to the apartment(s) that were actually on fire. They were
able to get the residents of all but two apartments out to safety with the help
of Officers Ryan Braswell and Mike Sullivan, who had arrived minutes later and
had also entered the building heading to the third floor as well. Before heading
into the building Officer Sullivan encountered a family trapped in their third
floor apartment due to flames and smoke blocking their exit into the corridors.
He instructed them to put their heads out the window to breathe fresh air until
a ladder arrived. Ex-Chief Jeff Myskowski, Ex-Chief Anthony Gaetano, Firefighter
Dane Richards Jr. and Probationary Firefighter Matt Hamilton worked together to
remove the residents out of the window, who were under heavy smoke and heat
conditions . A search was conducted by 2nd Lt. Nicholas Craig, Firefighter Rory
Green and TFFC #1 Assistant Chief Aaron Lay. They found an unconscious victim,
and removed her from the third floor using a portable stretcher.

PLACQUE/MERIT

NEPTUNE TWP. POLICE DEPARTMENT
Police Officer Aaron Lay
Police Officer Eric Chunn
Police Officer Shaun Hubbard

On Jan. 28, 2014, Officer Lay noticed a suspicious vehicle matching the
description of a vehicle observed at a shooting scene in Neptune Township a day
earlier. Officer Lay followed and attempted to initiate a motor-vehicle stop for
motor-vehicle violations. During his pursuit, the vehicle refused to stop and
attempted to elude Officer Lay so evidence could be discarded. Officer Lay
followed protocol notifying supervisors of the pursuit and documented his
observations to his shift commander. With the assistance of Asbury Park Police
officers and 11 - 7 a.m. patrol officers from Neptune Police, the vehicle was
stopped and two accused were taken into custody. Both suspects possessed ski
masks, cellular phones and currency was seized. Officer Chunn was directed to
canvass the route driven by Officer Lay to look for discarded contraband.
Officer Lay was contacted by Officer Chunn and advised a loaded Colt .38 caliber
revolver was recovered and believed to be thrown from vehicle. Both suspects
denied ownership of the weapon but admitted to being in the vehicles at the
shooting scene on Milton Avenue the day earlier witnessed by Officer Hubbard.
Both suspects had outstanding warrants and were certain persons not to possess
weapons. The recovery methods used by Officer Chunn in recovering the weapon
will assist with future prosecution against the accused in this ongoing
investigation. A resident of Sewall Avenue exited and observed a loaded black
and silver .45 caliber semi-automatic handgun on her front lawn. This was
another location noted by Officer Lay of suspicious actions by the suspect
vehicle earlier that day.

MERIT

Monmouth County Prosecutor's Officer
Detective Richard Chapman

On Nov. 12, 2014, Detective Chapman was driving to work on Route 33 in Freehold
Township when he observed a male in his 50s clinging to the outer rail of a four
story overpass. It appeared that the male was preparing to jump to his death.
Detective Chapman immediately turned around, parked his vehicle and approached
the male on foot. As he approached the male, the man told Detective Chapman that
he had nothing to live for and he was going to kill himself. Due to Detective
Chapman's narcotic training and experience, he immediately associated the male's
violent trembling and shaking to be related to narcotics and/or alcohol
withdrawal. Detective Chapman calmly engaged the male in conversation and
convinced him that his life was worth living and not to jump. Detective Chapman
called the Freehold Township Police Department while he continued to talk and
comfort the male. Subsequently, the male allowed Detective Chapman to physically
pull him to safety. For his effort Detective Chapman receives a merit award.
Detective Chapman has requested a donation be made in his name to his favorite
charity.

Neptune Township Police Department
Police Officer Aaron Lay

On July 17, 2014, Officer Lay initiated a motor-vehicle stop for suspicious
activity in a known high crime and drug distribution area. Officer Lay conducted
an interdiction with the occupants and obtained identities of both. Sgt.
Schembri and Officer Schuster arrived as back-up while warrant checks were
performed on both. During his investigation the operator of the vehicle was
found to have outstanding warrants for his arrest. The accused was removed from
the vehicle, placed under arrest, and handcuffed. The accused was searched by
Officer Lay and a loaded and cocked .45 caliber handgun was found in his
waistband. The weapon was secured properly and preserved for evidential value.
Both were transported to head quarters separately and the vehicle was seized.

Neptune Township Police Department
Police Officer James MacConchie

On Dec. 29, 2014, Officer MacConchie responded to a report of a medical pull
cord alarm at Sebastian Villa. Upon his arrival and after questioning the
occupant of the alarmed apartment, Officer MacConchie became suspicious of the
occupants demeanor and appearance. The suspicious incident led to a possible
homicide in Maryland. The Neptune resident was held in the Neptune Township
Police Department, where he was later charged with homicide in Maryland. Officer
MacConchie is receiving this Merit Award for his performance. He demonstrated
clearly why no call should be considered routine.

Asbury Park Police Department
Police Officer Lorenzo Pettway
Police Officer Sean DeShader
Police Officer Joseph Spallina

On October 13, 2014, Street Crimes Officer Lorenzo Pettway met with a
confidential informant who informed him there was an individual selling heroin
and prescription pills in the area. Officer Pettway recalled from previous
narcotics investigations an individual which he knew to go by the nickname
given. After speaking with the informant, Officer Pettway and fellow Street
Crimes officers Sean De Shader and Joseph Spallina located the individual
sitting on his front porch. After being advised that the subject had an act ATF
warrant, the officers responded back to the residence but were unable to locate
the subject. A short time later, Officer Pettway met with a confidential source
who informed him the subject was now inside an aptartment on Myrtle Ave. The
source also stated the subject was observed with a large amount of CDS, as well
as a silver handgun in his waistband. Officers immediately responded to the
residence and were given consent to enter. The officer located the subject
sitting amongst a group of other guests and located a silver hand gun hidden
amongst the pillows of the couch. The subject was then placed under arrest and
discovered to have one bag of marijuana, 22 Percocet pills, three bags of
crack/cocaine and $235 cash on his person.

Asbury Park Police Department
Police Officer Sean DeShader
Police Officer Lorenzo Pettway
Police Officer Joseph Spallina

On Nov. 11, 2014, street crime officers Deshader, Pettway and Spallina were on
foot patrol in Asbury Park village. The officers in the street crime units
received information that several shots were fired earlier that day. At 9:17
p.m., while in the area, Officers Deshader and Love attempted to stop a subject
who was a confirmed Blood gang member. The subject was on foot and seen pointing
a handgun at a car. The subject took flight on foot and in doing so, discarded a
loaded .380 auto handgun. Officer Love was able to retrieve the handgun and
Officer Pettway was able to apprehend the subject on foot.

Aberdeen Township Police Department
Sergeant Michael Lasko
Police Officer Bart Szulczynski

On Feb. 3, 2015, Officer Bart Szulczynski was dispatched to a domestic violence
incident at a residence on County Road. Upon arrival he found that a 38-year-old
male subject had taken his 2-year-old son and a knife and locked himself in the
bedroom, refusing to come out. The subject, an Iraq war veteran diagnosed with
PTSD, had told his wife he would harm anyone who tried to take the child away
from him. Although very agitated and screaming that he feared the child would be
taken from him, he told the officers he would only use the knife on himself.
Officer Szulczynski and Sgt. Michael Lasko were able to calm the individual to
the point that he opened the door and Officer Szulczynski was able to take the
child to his mother. Sgt. Lasko secured the knife and both officers were able to
peacefully restrain the individual and transport him to Bayshore Community
Hospital for a crisis evaluation.

Spring Lake Police Department
Patrolman William Kelly
Patrolman Emmett Smith

On April 4, 2015, at approximately 08:30 a.m., radio dispatch received
information that there was an overturned boat and one-to-two occupants were in
distress. Patrolman Kelly, Smith, Chief Kerr, SO Cuttrell and Sgt. Moran
responded to the shoreline to obtain a better vantage point. Officers observed
an overturned aluminum boat approximately 75 yards off the shoreline. A subject
was in distress and was attempting to hold on to the boat to remain afloat.
Patrolman Kelly and Smith removed their gun belt, ballistic vest and entered the
water. As Patrolman Kelly swam towards the victim, he observed that the victim
had drifted away from his boat. Kelly eventually approached the victim's
location in the lake, and observed that the victim was holding onto a safety
vest and that it was not safely secured to his body. As Kelly neared the victim,
at approximately 5 feet away, Kelly instructed the victim to remain calm and
that officers were going to get him safely back to shore. The victim confirmed
he was the only person in the boat. Patrolman Kelly and Smith safely brought the
victim onshore to a waiting ambulance provided by the Spring Lake First Aid
Squad (SLFA).

New Jersey State Police
Detective II Giuseppe S. Diodati
Trooper Jared M. Boyd

During the first half of 2014, Detective Diodati and Trooper Boyd investigated a
series of burglaries that occurred in the New Jersey State Police Hamilton
Sub-Station patrol area. These burglaries, 19 in total, resulted in a loss to
victims of approximately $190,000 worth of property. As a result of their
investigation, Detective Diodati and Trooper Boyd identified two suspects who
were suspected of committing not only the aforementioned burglaries, but
additional burglaries in Monmouth, Ocean and Burlington counties. Their efforts
resulted in the return of approximately $25,000 worth of property to its
rightful owners. These efforts also solidified the case against the suspects by
providing definite proof of the fact they were pawning stolen goods in multiple
locations. It should be noted the suspects were still actively involved in
committing burglaries at the time of their arrests. The efforts of Detective
Diodati and Trooper Boyd, in addition to solving 30 total burglaries in multiple
jurisdictions, prevented an untold number of crimes from occurring.

United States Marshal Service
Police Officer Brian Migliorisi

In 2014 while serving as a Task Force Officer with the United States Marshals
Service NY/NJ RFTF - Trenton Division, Monmouth Team, Asbury Park Police Officer
Brian Migliorisi has played an extremely important role in the success of the
unit. Officer Migliorisi was recalled to patrol duties full time while still
working with the task force on a part time basis. This situation did not deter
Officer Migliorisi from continuing to lead numerous investigations which led to
the arrest of several violent offenders wanted throughout Monmouth County. The
following are an example of some investigations led by Officer Migliorisi: A
suspect was wanted by the Asbury Park Police Department on charges of Possession
of a Handgun, Hollow-Point Ammunition, Stolen Firearm, Resisting by Flight, and
Endangering the Welfare of a Child. Through a diligent investigation led by
Officer Migliorisi, members of the task force arrested the suspect inside an
apartment in Asbury Park on 08/05/2014. Another suspect wanted by the Asbury
Park Police Department for several Home Invasions and two (2) counts of
Attempted Murder. During this investigation, Officer Migliorisi pursued numerous
leads in the US as well as the country of Jamaica. Further investigation
conducted by Officer Migliorisi resulted in identifying travel plans for the
suspect which ultimately led to his arrest upon arrival in NYC on 12/14/2014.
For his efforts Officer Migliorisi is being given a merit award.

United States Marshal Service
Randy Morgan

In 2014 during his assignment with the U.S. Marshals Service NY/NJ RFTF -
Trenton Division, Monmouth Team, Monmouth County Sheriff's Officer Randy Morgan
has led and participated in the investigation and arrest of more than 290
violent fugitives throughout Monmouth County. These fugitives were wanted for
various violent offenses, including murder, weapons offenses, bank robbery,
sexual assault and robbery. During the course of 2014, Officer Morgan assisted
with seizing 12 firearms and a variety of illegal controlled dangerous
substances. Officer Morgan has led several high-profile investigations, which
led to arrests including a wanted suspect by the Moores County Sheriff's Office
(North Carolina) on charges of Murder. Officer Morgan led a complex
investigation to locate the suspect which resulted in the suspect's arrest at a
location in Long Branch on Jan. 7, 2014. Another suspect wanted by the Eatontown
Police Department on charges of aggravated sexual assault of a minor. Again,
Officer Morgan led a complex investigation, resulting in the arrest of a suspect
after a brief foot pursuit in Howell.

COMMENDATION/VALOR

Middletown Township Fire Department
COMMENDATION
Firefighter James Phillips
Firefighter Michael Chenoweth
Firefighter Mathew Deickman
VALOR
Firefighter Jack Hueston
Firefighter Christian Burbank
Firefighter John Waltz

On Nov. 14, 2014 members of the Middletown Township Fire Department were
dispatched to Ocean Boulevard in the Leonardo section of Middletown on a
reported structure fire with a possible entrapment. Upon arrival heavy fire was
visible coming from a two-story wood frame structure involving both the first
and second floors, totally blocking the front entrance door. Firefighters Jack
Hueston, while conducting a 360 assessment of the scene, was advised that there
was someone trapped inside the burning structure and was yelling for help. At
this time Firefighters Hueston, Christian Burbank and John Waltz began to
conduct a Vent-Enter-Search (VES) operation of two windows on the first floor.
This was the area that had been pointed out earlier, as the last place that
calls for help were coming from. After venting and clearing the two windows
heavy black turbulent smoke vented from each window filling the both openings
completely. Firefighters Burbank and Waltz searched the interior below each
window sill from the exterior with negative results. Several seconds later the
smoke condition raised slightly allowing firefighters Hueston, Burbank and Waltz
to enter to conduct a search. The unconscious victim was located lying on the
floor approximately 10 to 12 feet from the entry window. Firefighters Michael
Chenoweth, Matthew Deickmann and James Phillips partially entered the burning
structure from the window, and after several failed attempts to lift the victim
out, a rescue strap was placed around the victims upper torso to provide added
leverage to get the victim up and out to a safe location. After removal of the
victim by rescuers, they began to administer basic life support techniques.

COMMENDATION/VALOR

Asbury Park Police Department
Police Officer Johny Washington
Police Officer Carl Christie
Police Officer Anthony Butler

On Sept. 29th, 2014, Patrol Officers Johny Washington, Carl Christie and Anthony
Butler were assigned patrol duties in Asbury Park. At 9:20 a.m., Officers
Washington and Christie responded to a disorderly persons call on Main Street.
When the Officers arrived, a subject brandished a steak knife and stabbed
Officer Christie in multiple areas, such as the wrist, finger and vest. The
subject reached for Officer Washington's gun, which the officer then shot the
attacker once. The subject was then handcuffed and Officer Butler was the next
to arrive. Officer Butler helped secure the crime scene and tend to both
officers. Both Officers Washington and Christie were taken to the local hospital
and later released.

VALOR

Neptune Township Police Department
Police Officer Sarai Lavandero

On April 7, 2014, Officer Lavandero responded to a report of a fight and shots
fired in Neptune Township. Approaching the immediate area, Officer Lavandero
observed a suspect acting suspiciously and identified actions leading her to
believe the suspect was armed and involved in the shooting. Officer Lavandero
stopped to conduct an interdiction and the suspect immediately fled on foot.
Officer Lavandero exited her vehicle and gave chase, calling out the suspect's
direction of travel. She continued to chase the suspect and observed him throw a
backpack to the ground. Officer Lavandero chased the suspect and was able to
grab him scaling a fence between yards. The suspect resisted arrest and was
taken to the ground, handcuffed behind his back and secured. The backpack was
recovered and protruding from it was a loaded .380 caliber handgun.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

PUB-SUBJECT: National

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                              16 of 161 DOCUMENTS


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                              June 8, 2015 Monday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Louis Pompei s last efforts helped capture assailants

BYLINE: Imani Tate

BODY:

The mortally wounded Louis Anthony  Louie  Pompei led deputies to his
assailants, 20 years ago tonight.

That deadly night, June 9, 1995, Pompei fired his gun and hit his attackers
enough times that they needed emergency assistance.

Those bullets and eyewitnesses  description of the fleeing armed suspects
vehicle led to the teenage killers  quick apprehension at Queen of the Valley
Hospital in West Covina.

Law-enforcement agents from several jurisdictions, according to Glendora Police
Chief Tim Staab, went into instant action after the wounded Pompei dialed 9-1-1
from a pay phone outside of Vons Market before collapsing.

Pompei, 30, and a 7-year veteran of the Glendora Police Department, had just
gotten off duty with L.A. Impact   a regional anti-drug trafficking task force
comprised of Los Angeles County sheriff s deputies and municipal police officers
. He went to Vons Market near his San Dimas home to cash his paycheck. He was in
the checkout line when two young men, later identified as Larry Hernandez, 16,
and Robert Ramirez, 17, entered the store, announced a holdup and began
pistol-whipping a box boy, according to police reports.

Louie did what he was trained to do as a policeman,  Staab said.  Whether he is
on- or off-duty, he was sworn to protect, serve and defend. He drew his gun and
identified himself as a policeman to stop the attack on the special-needs
employee. Gun fire ensued, but Louie drew fire away from customers and employees
in the store and toward himself.

According to a Glendora police memo, Pompei was hit five times, once in the
upper right chest, three in the abdomen and one in the thigh.

Although the bullet that hit him in the chest was a through-and-through, it took
out a ventricle to Louie s heart,  lamented the still-grieving Staab.  That just
killed him. He died during surgery at San Dimas Community Hospital. Louie
remains the only Glendora police officer killed in the line of duty since the
department was founded in 1926.

He remained loyal to the Law Enforcement Code of Ethics which notes, in part,
that an officer s  fundamental duty is to serve mankind, safeguard lives and
property and protect the innocent against deception, the weak against oppression
or intimidation and the peaceful against violence or disorder.  Louie upheld
that code to the end,  Staab said.

Pompei wounded the two assailants in the store before they escaped to a waiting
silver Toyota Tercel. Witnesses provided a description of the car for a crime
broadcast and a Pasadena Police Department helicopter used in an earlier L.A.
Impact aerial surveillance went airborne again, joining county and municipal
law-enforcement agents on the ground searching for the suspects.

Two Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department Special Enforcement Bureau deputies
had just dropped two prisoners at the Industry Sheriff s Station. Knowing the
area and following instinct, they went to Queen of the Valley Hospital in West
Covina to check for the suspects and vehicle.

They found Hernandez and Ramirez in the emergency room claiming they d been
wounded in a drive-by shooting in San Dimas and had been driven to the hospital
by Larry Hernandez s brother, Daniel, 19.

The two deputies saw Daniel Hernandez outside the hospital, questioned him and
impounded the vehicle. A search warrant netted blood stains.

Deputy District Attorney Mark Arnold of the Crimes Against Peace Officers Unit
tried the two juveniles as adults. It took a jury of seven women and five men
three hours to convict Ramirez and Larry Hernandez, the shooters inside the
market, of first-degree murder of a policeman, a special circumstance that
eliminates the opportunity for parole on their life sentences. The two were also
convicted of assaulting a Vons employee during the robbery.

Daniel Hernandez confessed to planning the robbery and driving the getaway car.
He testified against his brother and Ramirez to avoid the death penalty,
allowable under the law when convicted by a jury. Daniel Hernandez was convicted
of first-degree murder and sentenced to 26 years to life in prison.

After the arrest of the three, Staab said, investigating officers learned they
were suspected in series of San Gabriel Valley supermarket robberies.

Their violence was steadily increasing. They had pistol-whipped a shopper at an
earlier market robbery, so their violence was escalating even before the
firefight with Louie,  Staab said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (77%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); ETHICS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%);
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); DISABLED WORKERS (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING
(54%); DEATHS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015


                              17 of 161 DOCUMENTS


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Louis Pompei s last efforts helped capture assailants

BYLINE: Imani Tate

BODY:

The mortally wounded Louis Anthony  Louie  Pompei led deputies to his
assailants, 20 years ago tonight.

That deadly night, June 9, 1995, Pompei fired his gun and hit his attackers
enough times that they needed emergency assistance.

Those bullets and eyewitnesses  description of the fleeing armed suspects
vehicle led to the teenage killers  quick apprehension at Queen of the Valley
Hospital in West Covina.

Law-enforcement agents from several jurisdictions, according to Glendora Police
Chief Tim Staab, went into instant action after the wounded Pompei dialed 9-1-1
from a pay phone outside of Vons Market before collapsing.

Pompei, 30, and a 7-year veteran of the Glendora Police Department, had just
gotten off duty with L.A. Impact   a regional anti-drug trafficking task force
comprised of Los Angeles County sheriff s deputies and municipal police officers
. He went to Vons Market near his San Dimas home to cash his paycheck. He was in
the checkout line when two young men, later identified as Larry Hernandez, 16,
and Robert Ramirez, 17, entered the store, announced a holdup and began
pistol-whipping a box boy, according to police reports.

Louie did what he was trained to do as a policeman,  Staab said.  Whether he is
on- or off-duty, he was sworn to protect, serve and defend. He drew his gun and
identified himself as a policeman to stop the attack on the special-needs
employee. Gun fire ensued, but Louie drew fire away from customers and employees
in the store and toward himself.

According to a Glendora police memo, Pompei was hit five times, once in the
upper right chest, three in the abdomen and one in the thigh.

Although the bullet that hit him in the chest was a through-and-through, it took
out a ventricle to Louie s heart,  lamented the still-grieving Staab.  That just
killed him. He died during surgery at San Dimas Community Hospital. Louie
remains the only Glendora police officer killed in the line of duty since the
department was founded in 1926.

He remained loyal to the Law Enforcement Code of Ethics which notes, in part,
that an officer s  fundamental duty is to serve mankind, safeguard lives and
property and protect the innocent against deception, the weak against oppression
or intimidation and the peaceful against violence or disorder.  Louie upheld
that code to the end,  Staab said.

Pompei wounded the two assailants in the store before they escaped to a waiting
silver Toyota Tercel. Witnesses provided a description of the car for a crime
broadcast and a Pasadena Police Department helicopter used in an earlier L.A.
Impact aerial surveillance went airborne again, joining county and municipal
law-enforcement agents on the ground searching for the suspects.

Two Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department Special Enforcement Bureau deputies
had just dropped two prisoners at the Industry Sheriff s Station. Knowing the
area and following instinct, they went to Queen of the Valley Hospital in West
Covina to check for the suspects and vehicle.

They found Hernandez and Ramirez in the emergency room claiming they d been
wounded in a drive-by shooting in San Dimas and had been driven to the hospital
by Larry Hernandez s brother, Daniel, 19.

The two deputies saw Daniel Hernandez outside the hospital, questioned him and
impounded the vehicle. A search warrant netted blood stains.

Deputy District Attorney Mark Arnold of the Crimes Against Peace Officers Unit
tried the two juveniles as adults. It took a jury of seven women and five men
three hours to convict Ramirez and Larry Hernandez, the shooters inside the
market, of first-degree murder of a policeman, a special circumstance that
eliminates the opportunity for parole on their life sentences. The two were also
convicted of assaulting a Vons employee during the robbery.

Daniel Hernandez confessed to planning the robbery and driving the getaway car.
He testified against his brother and Ramirez to avoid the death penalty,
allowable under the law when convicted by a jury. Daniel Hernandez was convicted
of first-degree murder and sentenced to 26 years to life in prison.

After the arrest of the three, Staab said, investigating officers learned they
were suspected in series of San Gabriel Valley supermarket robberies.

Their violence was steadily increasing. They had pistol-whipped a shopper at an
earlier market robbery, so their violence was escalating even before the
firefight with Louie,  Staab said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (77%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); ETHICS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%);
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); DISABLED WORKERS (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING
(54%); DEATHS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015


                              18 of 161 DOCUMENTS


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Louis Pompei s last efforts helped capture assailants

BYLINE: Imani Tate

BODY:

The mortally wounded Louis Anthony  Louie  Pompei led deputies to his
assailants, 20 years ago tonight.

That deadly night, June 9, 1995, Pompei fired his gun and hit his attackers
enough times that they needed emergency assistance.

Those bullets and eyewitnesses  description of the fleeing armed suspects
vehicle led to the teenage killers  quick apprehension at Queen of the Valley
Hospital in West Covina.

Law-enforcement agents from several jurisdictions, according to Glendora Police
Chief Tim Staab, went into instant action after the wounded Pompei dialed 9-1-1
from a pay phone outside of Vons Market before collapsing.

Pompei, 30, and a 7-year veteran of the Glendora Police Department, had just
gotten off duty with L.A. Impact   a regional anti-drug trafficking task force
comprised of Los Angeles County sheriff s deputies and municipal police officers
. He went to Vons Market near his San Dimas home to cash his paycheck. He was in
the checkout line when two young men, later identified as Larry Hernandez, 16,
and Robert Ramirez, 17, entered the store, announced a holdup and began
pistol-whipping a box boy, according to police reports.

Louie did what he was trained to do as a policeman,  Staab said.  Whether he is
on- or off-duty, he was sworn to protect, serve and defend. He drew his gun and
identified himself as a policeman to stop the attack on the special-needs
employee. Gun fire ensued, but Louie drew fire away from customers and employees
in the store and toward himself.

According to a Glendora police memo, Pompei was hit five times, once in the
upper right chest, three in the abdomen and one in the thigh.

Although the bullet that hit him in the chest was a through-and-through, it took
out a ventricle to Louie s heart,  lamented the still-grieving Staab.  That just
killed him. He died during surgery at San Dimas Community Hospital. Louie
remains the only Glendora police officer killed in the line of duty since the
department was founded in 1926.

He remained loyal to the Law Enforcement Code of Ethics which notes, in part,
that an officer s  fundamental duty is to serve mankind, safeguard lives and
property and protect the innocent against deception, the weak against oppression
or intimidation and the peaceful against violence or disorder.  Louie upheld
that code to the end,  Staab said.

Pompei wounded the two assailants in the store before they escaped to a waiting
silver Toyota Tercel. Witnesses provided a description of the car for a crime
broadcast and a Pasadena Police Department helicopter used in an earlier L.A.
Impact aerial surveillance went airborne again, joining county and municipal
law-enforcement agents on the ground searching for the suspects.

Two Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department Special Enforcement Bureau deputies
had just dropped two prisoners at the Industry Sheriff s Station. Knowing the
area and following instinct, they went to Queen of the Valley Hospital in West
Covina to check for the suspects and vehicle.

They found Hernandez and Ramirez in the emergency room claiming they d been
wounded in a drive-by shooting in San Dimas and had been driven to the hospital
by Larry Hernandez s brother, Daniel, 19.

The two deputies saw Daniel Hernandez outside the hospital, questioned him and
impounded the vehicle. A search warrant netted blood stains.

Deputy District Attorney Mark Arnold of the Crimes Against Peace Officers Unit
tried the two juveniles as adults. It took a jury of seven women and five men
three hours to convict Ramirez and Larry Hernandez, the shooters inside the
market, of first-degree murder of a policeman, a special circumstance that
eliminates the opportunity for parole on their life sentences. The two were also
convicted of assaulting a Vons employee during the robbery.

Daniel Hernandez confessed to planning the robbery and driving the getaway car.
He testified against his brother and Ramirez to avoid the death penalty,
allowable under the law when convicted by a jury. Daniel Hernandez was convicted
of first-degree murder and sentenced to 26 years to life in prison.

After the arrest of the three, Staab said, investigating officers learned they
were suspected in series of San Gabriel Valley supermarket robberies.

Their violence was steadily increasing. They had pistol-whipped a shopper at an
earlier market robbery, so their violence was escalating even before the
firefight with Louie,  Staab said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (77%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); ETHICS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%);
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); DISABLED WORKERS (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING
(54%); DEATHS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015


                              19 of 161 DOCUMENTS


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Louis Pompei s last efforts helped capture assailants

BYLINE: Imani Tate

BODY:

The mortally wounded Louis Anthony  Louie  Pompei led deputies to his
assailants, 20 years ago tonight.

That deadly night, June 9, 1995, Pompei fired his gun and hit his attackers
enough times that they needed emergency assistance.

Those bullets and eyewitnesses  description of the fleeing armed suspects
vehicle led to the teenage killers  quick apprehension at Queen of the Valley
Hospital in West Covina.

Law-enforcement agents from several jurisdictions, according to Glendora Police
Chief Tim Staab, went into instant action after the wounded Pompei dialed 9-1-1
from a pay phone outside of Vons Market before collapsing.

Pompei, 30, and a 7-year veteran of the Glendora Police Department, had just
gotten off duty with L.A. Impact   a regional anti-drug trafficking task force
comprised of Los Angeles County sheriff s deputies and municipal police officers
. He went to Vons Market near his San Dimas home to cash his paycheck. He was in
the checkout line when two young men, later identified as Larry Hernandez, 16,
and Robert Ramirez, 17, entered the store, announced a holdup and began
pistol-whipping a box boy, according to police reports.

Louie did what he was trained to do as a policeman,  Staab said.  Whether he is
on- or off-duty, he was sworn to protect, serve and defend. He drew his gun and
identified himself as a policeman to stop the attack on the special-needs
employee. Gun fire ensued, but Louie drew fire away from customers and employees
in the store and toward himself.

According to a Glendora police memo, Pompei was hit five times, once in the
upper right chest, three in the abdomen and one in the thigh.

Although the bullet that hit him in the chest was a through-and-through, it took
out a ventricle to Louie s heart,  lamented the still-grieving Staab.  That just
killed him. He died during surgery at San Dimas Community Hospital. Louie
remains the only Glendora police officer killed in the line of duty since the
department was founded in 1926.

He remained loyal to the Law Enforcement Code of Ethics which notes, in part,
that an officer s  fundamental duty is to serve mankind, safeguard lives and
property and protect the innocent against deception, the weak against oppression
or intimidation and the peaceful against violence or disorder.  Louie upheld
that code to the end,  Staab said.

Pompei wounded the two assailants in the store before they escaped to a waiting
silver Toyota Tercel. Witnesses provided a description of the car for a crime
broadcast and a Pasadena Police Department helicopter used in an earlier L.A.
Impact aerial surveillance went airborne again, joining county and municipal
law-enforcement agents on the ground searching for the suspects.

Two Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department Special Enforcement Bureau deputies
had just dropped two prisoners at the Industry Sheriff s Station. Knowing the
area and following instinct, they went to Queen of the Valley Hospital in West
Covina to check for the suspects and vehicle.

They found Hernandez and Ramirez in the emergency room claiming they d been
wounded in a drive-by shooting in San Dimas and had been driven to the hospital
by Larry Hernandez s brother, Daniel, 19.

The two deputies saw Daniel Hernandez outside the hospital, questioned him and
impounded the vehicle. A search warrant netted blood stains.

Deputy District Attorney Mark Arnold of the Crimes Against Peace Officers Unit
tried the two juveniles as adults. It took a jury of seven women and five men
three hours to convict Ramirez and Larry Hernandez, the shooters inside the
market, of first-degree murder of a policeman, a special circumstance that
eliminates the opportunity for parole on their life sentences. The two were also
convicted of assaulting a Vons employee during the robbery.

Daniel Hernandez confessed to planning the robbery and driving the getaway car.
He testified against his brother and Ramirez to avoid the death penalty,
allowable under the law when convicted by a jury. Daniel Hernandez was convicted
of first-degree murder and sentenced to 26 years to life in prison.

After the arrest of the three, Staab said, investigating officers learned they
were suspected in series of San Gabriel Valley supermarket robberies.

Their violence was steadily increasing. They had pistol-whipped a shopper at an
earlier market robbery, so their violence was escalating even before the
firefight with Louie,  Staab said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (77%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); ETHICS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%);
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); DISABLED WORKERS (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING
(54%); DEATHS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015


                              20 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                              June 8, 2015 Monday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Louis Pompei s last efforts helped capture assailants

BYLINE: Imani Tate

BODY:

The mortally wounded Louis Anthony  Louie  Pompei led deputies to his
assailants, 20 years ago tonight.

That deadly night, June 9, 1995, Pompei fired his gun and hit his attackers
enough times that they needed emergency assistance.

Those bullets and eyewitnesses  description of the fleeing armed suspects
vehicle led to the teenage killers  quick apprehension at Queen of the Valley
Hospital in West Covina.

Law-enforcement agents from several jurisdictions, according to Glendora Police
Chief Tim Staab, went into instant action after the wounded Pompei dialed 9-1-1
from a pay phone outside of Vons Market before collapsing.

Pompei, 30, and a 7-year veteran of the Glendora Police Department, had just
gotten off duty with L.A. Impact   a regional anti-drug trafficking task force
comprised of Los Angeles County sheriff s deputies and municipal police officers
. He went to Vons Market near his San Dimas home to cash his paycheck. He was in
the checkout line when two young men, later identified as Larry Hernandez, 16,
and Robert Ramirez, 17, entered the store, announced a holdup and began
pistol-whipping a box boy, according to police reports.

Louie did what he was trained to do as a policeman,  Staab said.  Whether he is
on- or off-duty, he was sworn to protect, serve and defend. He drew his gun and
identified himself as a policeman to stop the attack on the special-needs
employee. Gun fire ensued, but Louie drew fire away from customers and employees
in the store and toward himself.

According to a Glendora police memo, Pompei was hit five times, once in the
upper right chest, three in the abdomen and one in the thigh.

Although the bullet that hit him in the chest was a through-and-through, it took
out a ventricle to Louie s heart,  lamented the still-grieving Staab.  That just
killed him. He died during surgery at San Dimas Community Hospital. Louie
remains the only Glendora police officer killed in the line of duty since the
department was founded in 1926.

He remained loyal to the Law Enforcement Code of Ethics which notes, in part,
that an officer s  fundamental duty is to serve mankind, safeguard lives and
property and protect the innocent against deception, the weak against oppression
or intimidation and the peaceful against violence or disorder.  Louie upheld
that code to the end,  Staab said.

Pompei wounded the two assailants in the store before they escaped to a waiting
silver Toyota Tercel. Witnesses provided a description of the car for a crime
broadcast and a Pasadena Police Department helicopter used in an earlier L.A.
Impact aerial surveillance went airborne again, joining county and municipal
law-enforcement agents on the ground searching for the suspects.

Two Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department Special Enforcement Bureau deputies
had just dropped two prisoners at the Industry Sheriff s Station. Knowing the
area and following instinct, they went to Queen of the Valley Hospital in West
Covina to check for the suspects and vehicle.

They found Hernandez and Ramirez in the emergency room claiming they d been
wounded in a drive-by shooting in San Dimas and had been driven to the hospital
by Larry Hernandez s brother, Daniel, 19.

The two deputies saw Daniel Hernandez outside the hospital, questioned him and
impounded the vehicle. A search warrant netted blood stains.

Deputy District Attorney Mark Arnold of the Crimes Against Peace Officers Unit
tried the two juveniles as adults. It took a jury of seven women and five men
three hours to convict Ramirez and Larry Hernandez, the shooters inside the
market, of first-degree murder of a policeman, a special circumstance that
eliminates the opportunity for parole on their life sentences. The two were also
convicted of assaulting a Vons employee during the robbery.

Daniel Hernandez confessed to planning the robbery and driving the getaway car.
He testified against his brother and Ramirez to avoid the death penalty,
allowable under the law when convicted by a jury. Daniel Hernandez was convicted
of first-degree murder and sentenced to 26 years to life in prison.

After the arrest of the three, Staab said, investigating officers learned they
were suspected in series of San Gabriel Valley supermarket robberies.

Their violence was steadily increasing. They had pistol-whipped a shopper at an
earlier market robbery, so their violence was escalating even before the
firefight with Louie,  Staab said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (77%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); ETHICS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%);
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); DISABLED WORKERS (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING
(54%); DEATHS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015


                              21 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Louis Pompei s last efforts helped capture assailants

BYLINE: Imani Tate

BODY:

The mortally wounded Louis Anthony  Louie  Pompei led deputies to his
assailants, 20 years ago tonight.

That deadly night, June 9, 1995, Pompei fired his gun and hit his attackers
enough times that they needed emergency assistance.

Those bullets and eyewitnesses  description of the fleeing armed suspects
vehicle led to the teenage killers  quick apprehension at Queen of the Valley
Hospital in West Covina.

Law-enforcement agents from several jurisdictions, according to Glendora Police
Chief Tim Staab, went into instant action after the wounded Pompei dialed 9-1-1
from a pay phone outside of Vons Market before collapsing.

Pompei, 30, and a 7-year veteran of the Glendora Police Department, had just
gotten off duty with L.A. Impact   a regional anti-drug trafficking task force
comprised of Los Angeles County sheriff s deputies and municipal police officers
. He went to Vons Market near his San Dimas home to cash his paycheck. He was in
the checkout line when two young men, later identified as Larry Hernandez, 16,
and Robert Ramirez, 17, entered the store, announced a holdup and began
pistol-whipping a box boy, according to police reports.

Louie did what he was trained to do as a policeman,  Staab said.  Whether he is
on- or off-duty, he was sworn to protect, serve and defend. He drew his gun and
identified himself as a policeman to stop the attack on the special-needs
employee. Gun fire ensued, but Louie drew fire away from customers and employees
in the store and toward himself.

According to a Glendora police memo, Pompei was hit five times, once in the
upper right chest, three in the abdomen and one in the thigh.

Although the bullet that hit him in the chest was a through-and-through, it took
out a ventricle to Louie s heart,  lamented the still-grieving Staab.  That just
killed him. He died during surgery at San Dimas Community Hospital. Louie
remains the only Glendora police officer killed in the line of duty since the
department was founded in 1926.

He remained loyal to the Law Enforcement Code of Ethics which notes, in part,
that an officer s  fundamental duty is to serve mankind, safeguard lives and
property and protect the innocent against deception, the weak against oppression
or intimidation and the peaceful against violence or disorder.  Louie upheld
that code to the end,  Staab said.

Pompei wounded the two assailants in the store before they escaped to a waiting
silver Toyota Tercel. Witnesses provided a description of the car for a crime
broadcast and a Pasadena Police Department helicopter used in an earlier L.A.
Impact aerial surveillance went airborne again, joining county and municipal
law-enforcement agents on the ground searching for the suspects.

Two Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department Special Enforcement Bureau deputies
had just dropped two prisoners at the Industry Sheriff s Station. Knowing the
area and following instinct, they went to Queen of the Valley Hospital in West
Covina to check for the suspects and vehicle.

They found Hernandez and Ramirez in the emergency room claiming they d been
wounded in a drive-by shooting in San Dimas and had been driven to the hospital
by Larry Hernandez s brother, Daniel, 19.

The two deputies saw Daniel Hernandez outside the hospital, questioned him and
impounded the vehicle. A search warrant netted blood stains.

Deputy District Attorney Mark Arnold of the Crimes Against Peace Officers Unit
tried the two juveniles as adults. It took a jury of seven women and five men
three hours to convict Ramirez and Larry Hernandez, the shooters inside the
market, of first-degree murder of a policeman, a special circumstance that
eliminates the opportunity for parole on their life sentences. The two were also
convicted of assaulting a Vons employee during the robbery.

Daniel Hernandez confessed to planning the robbery and driving the getaway car.
He testified against his brother and Ramirez to avoid the death penalty,
allowable under the law when convicted by a jury. Daniel Hernandez was convicted
of first-degree murder and sentenced to 26 years to life in prison.

After the arrest of the three, Staab said, investigating officers learned they
were suspected in series of San Gabriel Valley supermarket robberies.

Their violence was steadily increasing. They had pistol-whipped a shopper at an
earlier market robbery, so their violence was escalating even before the
firefight with Louie,  Staab said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (77%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); ETHICS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%);
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); DISABLED WORKERS (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING
(54%); DEATHS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015


                              22 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2015 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                               The Baltimore Sun

                               May 4, 2015 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Death by 'legal intervention';
Freddie Gray is the latest in a long line of black men, many unarmed and young,
allegedly killed by police officers

BODY:

Eric Garner in New York's Staten Island, Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., Walter
Scott in Summerville, S.C. And now Freddie Gray, right here in our beloved Charm
City, becomes the latest citizen to join a macabre roster: the growing list of
unarmed black men killed by police, their deaths thrust into the national
spotlight, generating scrutiny and outrage. The seeming explosion of such cases
around the country prompted me to engage my social research methods students at
University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC) in a project: examining trends
in deadly-force incidents that have occurred here in the Baltimore/D.C. area
over the last 25 years (1990 to 2015) by searching The Baltimore Sun and The
Washington Post news archives for all cases in which a citizen was killed by an
on-duty officer.

We assumed that any such case that resulted in a death would generate at least a
brief news story, and so we set about carefully collecting and coding key pieces
of information from these articles, including details such as the work shift
during which the interaction happened, whether the suspect was armed or noted to
be mentally ill, and the experience level of the officer who did the shooting.
Students wondered if there really are more cases now than in the past due,
perhaps, to more militarized styles of policing, or if the seeming increase in
cases is simply a figment of the media attention. What can we learn about the
patterns and themes that characterize these cases?

No official data

You might be surprised, as were my students, to learn that we currently have no
way of really knowing how common police use of lethal force against citizens
actually is, as no systematic data is collected to track such incidents, despite
pleas for accountability from public intellectuals right here in Baltimore like
David Simon, creator of HBO's "The Wire." Unlike as with most other crime data,
there is no mandatory reporting of these incidents to the FBI's Uniform Crime
database. Considering how much data is compiled on each of us every day by
government entities and corporations alike, it seems odd that no data at all is
assembled to document these cases. Without data, it is far too easy to dismiss
the magnitude or pattern of a behavior. By contrast, extensive data is collected
and indexed by the FBI for each case in which a police officer is killed or
assaulted in the line of duty.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which record and classify
the manner of death for all Americans, keep the only systematic national
documentation of any kind that reports upon citizens killed by police. These are
categorized as "deaths by legal intervention," and the name itself says much
about how we regard such cases. Blacks (mostly males) made up 29 percent of the
159 incidents recorded in 2008 (the last year for which a report compiling this
data was published), but they make up just over 13 percent of the overall
American population. In 2013, a total of 27 officers were feloniously killed
while on duty. Given that deaths by legal intervention are four times more
common than are cases of police officers killed in the line of duty, shouldn't
we also be collecting and tracking data for these incidents?

When my students and I examined cases of citizens being killed by police here in
the Baltimore/DC area over the last 25 years, several interesting observations
emerge:

Killings peaked in 1993

(1) It is a misnomer that there are more cases of police use of deadly force now
than at any point in the past.

In our data, the year with the most deaths (27) was 1993. There were 21 deaths
in 1994, but then rates declined for several years until a spike of cases
occurred 2002, when there were 20 incidents. The average number of cases per
year was 10.7. It seems worth noting that community policing became very popular
across this country in the mid 1990s but was then eclipsed by a more
militaristic approach after 9/11.

(2) The vast majority of cases in which police kill a citizen do impact black
men.

Of the 262 cases we identified in which the victim's sex was reported, only 6
percent (16 cases) were women. Curiously, the race of the victim was much less
frequently reported in news articles, but in the 50 cases for which the victim's
race was reported, 76 percent of the dead citizens were black; 16 percent were
Latino or Hispanic; 4 percent were white; and 4 percent were Asian.

In 1990, according to U.S. Census data, 39.1 percent of residents in the city of
Baltimore were white. By 2000, that number had dropped to 31.6 percent -- where
it remains as of 2013. In the District of Columbia, 29.6 percent of residents
were white in 1990. That figure had climbed to 43.4 percent in 2013.

So black men really are dying at a higher rate than they are represented in the
broader population, very likely due to the war on drugs, which generated more
scrutiny and aggressive policing of black neighborhoods. Our public policies
directed police to work in this way; we must now challenge and support them to
take a different approach.

(3) Contrary to popular opinion, most victims of police shootings are not very
young men.

It turns out that the average age of victims was 31.7 years, which was pretty
close to the median age of 29.5. Victims in our study ranged from 2 to 78 years
of age, but a relative few (6.4 percent) were under 18, and many were in their
30s and 40s.

Victims are usually armed

(4) In the great number of cases, the citizen was noted as having been armed.

In nearly half (48.5 percent) of the cases we examined, a gun was allegedly
found on the victim. In 17.5 percent of cases, there was a knife reportedly
found, and in about a quarter of cases (23.2 percent), no weapon was reported.
In a small number of cases (9.3 percent), the weapon was otherwise classified
(dogs, cars, umbrellas, etc.), or there were multiple weapons present (1.5
percent of cases). In 64.9 percent of cases, the citizen was noted as having
been brandishing a weapon, but that leaves at least one-third of cases in which
no weapon was displayed to police. And after the Walter Scott video, we have to
assume that some of the weapons that were allegedly present/being brandished
could have been planted or posed.

(5) The vast majority of these incidents occurred early in an officer's career,
during their second and fifth years of service.

This was one of the most interesting things we found. Of the 116 cases in which
the tenure of the officer was known, the average number of years in service of
the officer who killed the citizen was 8.4 years, but the median was just six
years and the mode (most common year of service noted) was just two years (15 of
the 116 cases, or 12.9 percent). A full 52.6 percent of these cases occur within
the first six years of an officer's service. Crossing the tenure of the
officer's service against whether a weapon was brandished indicates negative
relationship between years of service and the use of deadly force -- meaning
that older officers were more likely to reserve force for cases in which the
citizen/suspect pulled a weapon.

It is also quite possible that officers in the earlier years of service are more
likely to be out patrolling streets and encountering incidents that escalate to
the use of force. Perhaps officers could be better trained early on to respond
in different ways -- or to engage principles of community policing so as to
reduce the general level of potential violence.

'Dysfuntional pattern'

The civil unrest generated by public reaction to the national spotlight being
shown upon this issue should make us all wonder whether we, as a society, are
capable of interracial policing. In the end, of course, we must be able to do
this work in an open, just and civil manner. To reach that goal, however, we
must honestly and candidly examine how we have been policing by using the
sometimes-harsh mirror that objective social data provides. Most police
interactions are respectful and professional, but a significant dysfunctional
pattern exists in how white police officers interact with black suspects.

We have seen the worst of this behavior displayed so candidly in the Walter
Scott video: an officer appearing to shoot a suspect in cold blood and then
plant a weapon on the victim. These are things that black men have long told us
happen more often than we want to believe. And while the video highlights a
specific incident, it finally prompted an officer to be charged with murder in
the death of a citizen. In Baltimore on Friday, six city officers were charged
criminally in Freddie Gray's death. Though the charges each received varied, all
were charged with some form of assault and misconduct in office; one was charged
with second-degree, depraved heart murder -- the most serious of the charges
brought -- and others were charged with involuntary manslaughter.

Too often, without a video, police officers are exonerated via internal
investigations based on rules that prioritize officers' accounts. Let's start
collecting the data we need to track and systematically examine such incidents
and use it to challenge and improve upon our policing until it fully reflects
the integrity of our American ideal of equality under the law.

Suzanne Lea is an adjunct sociology professor at UMBC; her email is
sgoodney@umbc.edu Social Research Methods Students at UMBC contributed to this
piece.

GRAPHIC: Photo(s)
 Photo: Baltimore State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby filed criminal  charges Friday
against six city police officers involved in the  arrest and death of Freddie
Gray, shown here being loaded into a  police van, where he suffered a fatal
injury.
 Handout/TNS/Baltimore Sun

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%);
DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MICHAEL BROWN SHOOTING (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%);
COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%);
COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH
ADMINISTRATION (71%); CRIME STATISTICS (66%); MENTAL ILLNESS (66%)

PUB-SUBJECT: OPED COMMENTARY , Freddie Gray Case , unarmed black men killed by
police

COMPANY: NASH HOLDINGS LLC (56%); GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS:
PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120
PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) MARYLAND, USA
(93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015


                              23 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
                               guelphmercury.com

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Guelph agency for the homeless to stage event to honour victim in
fatal police shooting

BYLINE: roflanagan@guelphmercury.com

BODY:

GUELPH - People who knew the victim of the fatal May 20 police shooting at the
Guelph General Hospital will honour him Monday with a pizza dinner.

They will gather to remember Brandon Duncan at a downtown agency that serves
local homeless and marginalized residents.

Meanwhile, local political activists are planning to protest the use of lethal
weapons by police officers following the shooting death of Duncan.

Ed Pickersgill coordinates 40 Baker Street, which houses several programs and
organizations that serve "the unemployed, needy and dispossessed out of
poverty," according to its website. Duncan was a long-time client of Fresh Start
Housing Centre, which is located at 40 Baker. Fresh Start helps the homeless
find shelter and sustainable housing.

Duncan, 36, was killed in the emergency department at around 1:30 p.m. on May
20, during an interaction with two Guelph Police officers. He was shot multiple
times. The Special Investigations Unit has 12 investigators probing the death.
The investigation is ongoing.

Duncan suffered from mental illness, addiction, and Crohn's disease, according
to friends and associates in the community. He accessed services for the
homeless over at least a 15 year period, and had several lengthy stays in
hospital related to Crohn's. Pickersgill is dedicating the Monday pizza dinner
at 40 Baker Street to Duncan. It runs from 4:15 p.m. to 5:15 p.m. People will be
invited to share their thoughts and reactions on a large sheet of paper.

On the Facebook event page for the memorial, Pickersgill states Duncan was in "a
serious personal crisis resulting from homelessness, Crohn's, addiction,
loneliness and fear," at the time of his death.

"We at 40 Baker Street would like to share our pizza day supper on Monday 1st of
June in memory of Brandon Duncan so that (1) his death not go unmarked in his
community; and (2) pizza and juice and music on that day be an occasion for
those who knew him personally and for those who have shared in similar
circumstances to have a chance to give a nod of understanding that his life did
matter and that he simply should not have died the way he did."

Area funeral homes have been contacted and none are as yet managing
memorial/burial arrangements for Duncan. The SIU would not comment this week on
whether Duncan's body has been released for burial.

It's unclear where Duncan's next of kin reside. The SIU said a family member
consented to release his name to the public. That person's identity has not been
made public. Associates of Duncan in Guelph have asserted that they have no
knowledge of him having relatives in the city. They believe he was raised in
Fergus by his grandparents, who are deceased.

Monday's event at 40 Baker Street may also involve planning for a protest at an
upcoming Guelph Police Services Board meeting, said Sakura Saunders.

Saunders is a local political activist, a volunteer with the Ontario Public
Interest Research Group, and a police accountability activist. She is also the
founder of the group Disarm Toronto Police and advocates for the disarming of
frontline officers.

She said discussions are underway to organize a Guelph protest or advocacy event
against the police use of lethal force. Activists are planning to attend a
Guelph Police Service public meeting at the Shelldale Centre on Tuesday. That
session is an input forum related to the development of the police service's
next strategic business plan.

"People are definitely disturbed about it," Saunders said, speaking of the
Duncan shooting.

"I have seen a number of cases (elsewhere)of police shooting people who were
attempting self-harm or having mental health issues - coming in and shooting
first and asking questions later," she said.

While the fatal shooting of Duncan was the first by a Guelph Police officer,
Saunders said in the two years between August, 2011 and August, 2013, Toronto
Police were engaged with 14 people who died. Seven of those were shot to death
by police. In none of the cases, she said, were the victims as heavily armed as
the police.

"This is one of the reasons I advocate that frontline police officers are
disarmed, and that only a special force has lethal weapons," she said, speaking
of the Duncan incident. "I think the police should have been securing the area
and making sure that people were safe, including the person they ended up
killing, rather than using lethal means."

The next meeting of the Guelph Police Services Board is June 18.

roflanagan@guelphmercury.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); HOMELESSNESS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); EMERGENCY
ROOMS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); UNEMPLOYED
PERSONS (73%); AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%);
GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (67%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (54%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015


                              24 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
                               guelphmercury.com

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Guelph agency for the homeless to stage event to honour victim in
fatal police shooting

BYLINE: roflanagan@guelphmercury.com

BODY:

GUELPH - People who knew the victim of the fatal May 20 police shooting at the
Guelph General Hospital will honour him Monday with a pizza dinner.

They will gather to remember Brandon Duncan at a downtown agency that serves
local homeless and marginalized residents.

Meanwhile, local political activists are planning to protest the use of lethal
weapons by police officers following the shooting death of Duncan.

Ed Pickersgill coordinates 40 Baker Street, which houses several programs and
organizations that serve "the unemployed, needy and dispossessed out of
poverty," according to its website. Duncan was a long-time client of Fresh Start
Housing Centre, which is located at 40 Baker. Fresh Start helps the homeless
find shelter and sustainable housing.

Duncan, 36, was killed in the emergency department at around 1:30 p.m. on May
20, during an interaction with two Guelph Police officers. He was shot multiple
times. The Special Investigations Unit has 12 investigators probing the death.
The investigation is ongoing.

Duncan suffered from mental illness, addiction, and Crohn's disease, according
to friends and associates in the community. He accessed services for the
homeless over at least a 15 year period, and had several lengthy stays in
hospital related to Crohn's. Pickersgill is dedicating the Monday pizza dinner
at 40 Baker Street to Duncan. It runs from 4:15 p.m. to 5:15 p.m. People will be
invited to share their thoughts and reactions on a large sheet of paper.

On the Facebook event page for the memorial, Pickersgill states Duncan was in "a
serious personal crisis resulting from homelessness, Crohn's, addiction,
loneliness and fear," at the time of his death.

"We at 40 Baker Street would like to share our pizza day supper on Monday 1st of
June in memory of Brandon Duncan so that (1) his death not go unmarked in his
community; and (2) pizza and juice and music on that day be an occasion for
those who knew him personally and for those who have shared in similar
circumstances to have a chance to give a nod of understanding that his life did
matter and that he simply should not have died the way he did."

Area funeral homes have been contacted and none are as yet managing
memorial/burial arrangements for Duncan. The SIU would not comment this week on
whether Duncan's body has been released for burial.

It's unclear where Duncan's next of kin reside. The SIU said a family member
consented to release his name to the public. That person's identity has not been
made public. Associates of Duncan in Guelph have asserted that they have no
knowledge of him having relatives in the city. They believe he was raised in
Fergus by his grandparents, who are deceased.

Monday's event at 40 Baker Street may also involve planning for a protest at an
upcoming Guelph Police Services Board meeting, said Sakura Saunders.

Saunders is a local political activist, a volunteer with the Ontario Public
Interest Research Group, and a police accountability activist. She is also the
founder of the group Disarm Toronto Police and advocates for the disarming of
frontline officers.

She said discussions are underway to organize a Guelph protest or advocacy event
against the police use of lethal force. Activists are planning to attend a
Guelph Police Service public meeting at the Shelldale Centre on Tuesday. That
session is an input forum related to the development of the police service's
next strategic business plan.

"People are definitely disturbed about it," Saunders said, speaking of the
Duncan shooting.

"I have seen a number of cases (elsewhere)of police shooting people who were
attempting self-harm or having mental health issues - coming in and shooting
first and asking questions later," she said.

While the fatal shooting of Duncan was the first by a Guelph Police officer,
Saunders said in the two years between August, 2011 and August, 2013, Toronto
Police were engaged with 14 people who died. Seven of those were shot to death
by police. In none of the cases, she said, were the victims as heavily armed as
the police.

"This is one of the reasons I advocate that frontline police officers are
disarmed, and that only a special force has lethal weapons," she said, speaking
of the Duncan incident. "I think the police should have been securing the area
and making sure that people were safe, including the person they ended up
killing, rather than using lethal means."

The next meeting of the Guelph Police Services Board is June 18.

roflanagan@guelphmercury.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); HOMELESSNESS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); EMERGENCY
ROOMS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); UNEMPLOYED
PERSONS (73%); AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%);
GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (67%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (54%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2015


                              25 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
                               The New York Times

                              May 5, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Police Rethink Long Tradition on Using Force

BYLINE: By MATT APUZZO

BODY:

WASHINGTON --  During a training course on defending against knife attacks, a
young Salt Lake City police officer asked a question: ''How close can somebody
get to me before I'm justified in using deadly force?''

Dennis Tueller, the instructor in that class more than three decades ago,
decided to find out. In the fall of 1982, he performed a rudimentary series of
tests and concluded that an armed attacker who bolted toward an officer could
clear 21 feet in the time it took most officers to draw, aim and fire their
weapon.

The next spring, Mr. Tueller published his findings in SWAT magazine and
transformed police training in the United States. The ''21-foot rule'' became
dogma. It has been taught in police academies around the country, accepted by
courts and cited by officers to justify countless shootings, including recent
episodes involving a homeless woodcarver in Seattle and a schizophrenic woman in
San Francisco.

Now, amid the largest national debate over policing since the 1991 beating of
Rodney King in Los Angeles, a small but vocal set of law enforcement officials
are calling for a rethinking of the 21-foot rule and other axioms that have
emphasized how to use force, not how to avoid it. Several big-city police
departments are already re-examining when officers should chase people or draw
their guns and when they should back away, wait or try to defuse the situation.

''In a democratic society, people have a say in how they are policed, and people
are saying that they are not satisfied with how things are going,'' said Sean
Whent, the police chief in Oakland, Calif. The city has a troubled history of
police abuse and misconduct, but some policy changes and a new approach to
training have led to sharp declines in the use of force, Chief Whent added.

Like the 21-foot rule, many current police practices were adopted when officers
faced violent street gangs. Crime rates soared, as did the number of officers
killed. Today, crime is at historic lows and most cities are safer than they
have been in generations, for residents and officers alike. This should be a
moment of high confidence in the police, said Chuck Wexler, executive director
of the Police Executive Research Forum, a law enforcement policy group. Instead,
he said, policing is in crisis.

''People aren't buying our brand. If it was a product, we'd take it out of the
marketplace and re-engineer it,'' Mr. Wexler said. ''We've lost the confidence
of the American people.''

Mr. Wexler's group will meet with hundreds of police leaders in Washington this
week to call for a new era of training, one that replaces truisms such as the
21-foot rule with lessons on defusing tense situations and avoiding violent
confrontations. While the Justice Department and chiefs of some major police
departments are supportive, the effort has not been widely embraced, at least so
far. Some police unions and others have expressed skepticism, saying officers
are being unfairly criticized.

''All this chatter just increases the idea that these encounters are avoidable
and law enforcement is at fault,'' said Jeff Roorda of the St. Louis Police
Officers' Association, who said officers already thought about ways to avoid
confrontations.

The typical police cadet receives about 58 hours of training on how to use a gun
and 49 hours on defensive tactics, according to a recent survey by Mr. Wexler's
group. By comparison, cadets spend just eight hours learning to calm situations
before force is needed, a technique called de-escalation.

''Everything now is: You get there, you see a guy with a knife, you resolve
it,'' said Mr. Wexler, a former senior Boston police official. In many
situations, he said, officers who find themselves 21 feet from a suspect can
simply take a step backward to buy themselves time and safety.

Mr. Tueller's article never proposed a bright line between a shooting that was
justified and one that was not. In a telephone interview, Mr. Tueller, 63, said
he had simply wanted to warn officers that they might be in danger far sooner
than they realized. Twenty-one feet as a justification for shooting, he said,
just became a ''sticky idea'' in policing.

The Dallas police chief, David O. Brown, said at a policing conference in
February: ''Sometimes it seems like our young officers want to get into an
athletic event with people they want to arrest. They have a 'don't retreat'
mentality. They feel like they're warriors and they can't back down when someone
is running from them, no matter how minor the underlying crime is.''

Those remarks came just weeks before a police officer in North Charleston, S.C.,
was charged with murder for shooting an unarmed man in the back. The officer had
stopped the man, Walter L. Scott, because of a broken brake light. When Mr.
Scott ran, the officer gave chase, even though he had Mr. Scott's driver's
license.

''In most cases, time is on our side,'' Chief Whent, of Oakland, said in an
interview. ''We're chasing someone whose name we know, and we know where they
live.''

The Oakland department, which is still working to repair its troubled history,
now prohibits officers from chasing suspects alone into yards or alleys if they
might be armed. All officers receive training that emphasizes smart
decision-making. After averaging about eight police shootings annually for many
years, the city had none last year and cut in half the number of times officers
drew their guns, Chief Whent said.

Whether a shooting is justified often hinges on the fraction of a second before
the officer fires. In Cleveland in November, officers thought that 12-year-old
Tamir Rice was wielding a pistol, not realizing he was playing with a replica.
In Ferguson, Mo., an officer said he killed Michael Brown, 18, last summer
because Mr. Brown had lunged at him after a scuffle through the window of his
cruiser. In Seattle, the officer who shot the woodcarver said that the man had
refused to drop his knife and that he had struck a ''very confrontational
posture.''

But earlier decisions can also be critical. In Cleveland, officers pulled their
cars extremely close to Tamir, immediately increasing the possibility of a
confrontation. In Ferguson, the officer, Darren Wilson, got out of his car after
the tussle and pursued Mr. Brown alone. In Seattle, internal investigators
chastised the officer, Ian Birk, for approaching the armed man and then using
the 21-foot rule to justify shooting him.

''Officer Birk created the situation which he claims he had to use deadly force
to get out of,'' a police review board concluded. The officer resigned.

Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York announced a new training program for the Police
Department in December as the city faced waves of protests over the death of
Eric Garner, an unarmed black man who died after a police chokehold. Seattle,
which is under federal supervision after a Justice Department civil rights
investigation, recently announced that its officers would also receive new
training.

Mr. Tueller, the retired Salt Lake City instructor, said that he supported
improving police training, but that officers were being unfairly blamed for the
recent spate of fatal shootings. Most, if not all, would have been avoided if
the suspects had obeyed orders, he said.

''We can't get in people's heads, and we can't change behavior in many
situations,'' he said. ''If they don't comply, the officer has to have options.
De-escalation is fine, to a point.''

Teaching officers to hesitate, Mr. Tueller said, could put them in danger.

That focus on officer safety has underpinned many police policies, but Mr.
Wexler argues that it is a false choice. Officers in Britain, most of whom do
not carry guns and typically face fewer suspects with firearms than some
American police officers do, regularly confront suspects carrying knives, as do
their counterparts here. British officers follow what is known as the National
Decision Model, which emphasizes talking, remaining patient and using no more
force than necessary.

No police officer in England has died from a weapon attack during the past two
years, according to the most recent published data, and none have been involved
in fatal shootings during that period. (Officers with guns back up those who do
not carry them.)

But Mr. Wexler acknowledged that changes in policing would be slow. ''Not
everybody's going to accept it,'' he said. ''We're asking them to rethink in a
major way things they have done for 20 years.''




GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Training with a video simulation, Lt. Sekou Millington of the
Oakland, Calif., police confronted an armed man during a robbery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) CHART: Training for Recruits: A recent
survey of 281 police agencies found that young officers spent far more time
training on firearms and tactics than on responding to a crisis or defusing
tense situations. (Source: Police Executive Research Forum) (A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); CITY
LIFE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLICE
MISCONDUCT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MISCONDUCT (70%); GANGS (68%);
POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: POLICE EXECUTIVE RESEARCH FORUM (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN
FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (70%)
CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015


                              26 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                                 Copyright 2015
                          The Lebanon Democrat, Tenn.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Police investigate armed robbery

BYLINE: Jared Felkins, The Lebanon Democrat, Tenn.

BODY:

June 30--MT. JULIET -- An armed robbery Saturday evening at the Corner Market at
20 Benders Ferry Road remained under investigation Monday after the suspect was
later found dead.

Mt. Juliet officers responded to an armed robbery call at about 8:30 p.m. at the
Corner Market after a witness called 911. But before officers could get there,
the suspect fled the scene in a Ford Escape after apparently stealing a case of
beer.

Investigators with the criminal investigations division responded to the scene.
Their preliminary investigation revealed a man entered the store, grabbed a case
of beer and ran out of the store. A 56-year-old clerk and 46-year-old witness
confronted the suspect as he got into his car.

During the confrontation, the suspect pulled a revolver and pointed it at the
clerk and witness. As the suspect fled the scene, officers said the witness told
them the suspect fired one gunshot out of the vehicle. No one was hit by gunfire
or injured during the robbery.

At about 10:30 p.m., Mt. Juliet police investigators confirmed the suspect was
found dead at a home on Lakeview Drive in an unincorporated area of Wilson
County. Wilson County sheriff's investigators continued to look into the
suspect's death.

On Monday, Sheriff Robert Bryan said deputies responded to 62 Lakeview Drive on
Saturday at about 11 p.m. and found Kristopher Lee Green dead in the home from
what appeared to be a gunshot wound. Bryan said a small-caliber handgun was
recovered from the scene.

Bryan said Green's body was taken to the state medical examiner's office for
autopsy, and the investigation remained open pending the results.

During the investigation, Bryan said investigators found indications at the
scene Green was a possible suspect in an armed robbery that prior to the
shooting at the Corner Market at the corner of Benders Ferry Road and Lebanon
Road in Mt. Juliet. Sheriff's investigators contacted Mt. Juliet police, and
investigators from Mt. Juliet were investigating the armed robbery, Green and
any possible connection between the two.

Police said there is no active search under way for any suspects.

"Our thoughts and prayers go out to the suspect's family, friends and loved
ones," said Mt. Juliet police Lt. Tyler Chandler. "The identity of the suspect
will not be released until the Wilson County Sheriff's Department completes
[its] investigation."

___ (c)2015 The Lebanon Democrat, Tenn. Visit The Lebanon Democrat, Tenn. at
www.lebanondemocrat.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1LD

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (93%); ROBBERY (93%);
SHOOTINGS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); SHERIFFS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); WOUNDS &
INJURIES (87%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (78%); FIREARMS (73%); DEATHS (71%)

INDUSTRY: General

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); LEBANON (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015


                              27 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2015 Richmond Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                       Richmond Times Dispatch (Virginia)

                             June 25, 2015 Thursday
                                   2 Edition

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Crime briefs for Thursday, June 25

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

BODY:

Crime and police news

Truck hits state trooper on I-95 in Caroline County

CAROLINE - A Virginia State Police trooper was seriously injured Wednesday
morning after being hit by a vehicle while assisting with traffic control in
Caroline County, according to state police Sgt. Steve Vick.

The trooper was hit at about 12:18 a.m. and taken to VCU Medical Center with
serious but non-life-threatening injuries, Vick wrote in a statement.

The injured trooper was one of three troopers controlling traffic on southbound
Interstate 95 near mile marker 108, north of the Ladysmith rest area, Vick said.

A tractor trailer lost control while approaching the scene and hit a state
police vehicle and then a contract worker's parked pickup truck, Vick said.

Once the tractor trailer hit the pickup truck, the pickup truck hit the trooper,
who was on foot, sending the trooper over a guardrail, Vick said.

State police were directing traffic because there was high water on the
interstate, according to Vick, who said the police vehicles' emergency lights
were on at the time of the crash.

The contract worker was there to help the police, including by setting up cones,
Vick said.

The trooper was the only person injured, Vick said.

Nicholas J. Coia, 67, of Florida, was the driver of the 2016 Kenworth tractor
trailer and was charged with reckless driving, Vick said.

Sheriff's deputy shoots, kills armed suspect

YORKTOWN - The York-Poquoson Sheriff's Office says that one of its deputies shot
and killed a 26-year-old Newport News man who was armed.

The Sheriff's Office says the shooting happened early Wednesday morning on Fort
Eustis Boulevard in York County while the deputy was investigating a vehicle
accident.

The office posted on its Facebook page that a confrontation ensued, and that
Damien A. Harrell produced a handgun. The deputy shot Harrell, who was
pronounced dead at Mary Immaculate Hospital.

The Sheriff's Office said Harrell, who was wanted for unspecified charges in
another jurisdiction, had an extensive criminal history. It said Harrell was
considered armed and dangerous with violent tendencies.

Authorities have not released the name of the deputy involved. An investigation
into the shooting is ongoing.

Agency investigating death in fall from tower

VERONA - The state is investigating the death of a West Virginia man who fell
about 30 feet from a water tower in Verona.

Augusta County Fire Battalion Commander Jeff Hurst said the man fell from a
ladder attached to the unfinished water tower at Mill Place Commerce Park.

Augusta County Service Authority deputy executive director Oscar Beasley
identified the victim as 47-year-old Gregory Jamison of Franklin, West Virginia.

Jamison was an employee of the authority.

The accident occurred Saturday morning. Beasley said Jamison died on Sunday.

Other details weren't available.

The Virginia Occupational Safety and Health Safety Compliance Program is
investigating the incident.

- From staff and wire reports

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (91%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%);
MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SHERIFFS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GUNSHOT
WOUNDS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS
(88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (79%); COUNTIES (78%);
TRUCK SAFETY (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%);
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (76%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (70%); EXECUTIVES
(67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (62%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2015


                              28 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 19, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: No charges against St. Louis officer who killed VonDerrit Myers

BYLINE:  By Christine Byers St. Louis Post-Dispatch Paul Hampel and Margaret
Gillerman of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

BODY:

ST. LOUIS o St. Louis Circuit Attorney Jennifer Joyce announced Monday that no
charges will be filed against the city police officer who shot and killed
VonDerrit Myers Jr.

Joyce issued a press release and a report detailing an investigation her office
conducted separately from police. An assistant U.S. attorney helped with the
investigation.

Joyce did not name the officer in a 51-page report because he was not charged
with a crime, but Police Chief Sam Dotson released a separate statement
including the name of Officer Jason Flanery, which had become public months ago
anyway.

The prosecutor's report on the Oct. 8 shooting reads, in part, "Given all the
available facts, witness statements, physical and forensic evidence" prosecutors
"have determined a criminal violation could not be proven beyond a reasonable
doubt. Therefore, charges will not be filed in this case."

The material Joyce released suggested, in fact, that Flanery, 31, was attacked
and shot Myers, 18, in self-defense while on patrol that night for a private
residents' association in the Shaw neighborhood. The encounter occurred about
7:30 p.m. in the 4100 block of Shaw Boulevard.

But it did cast a new light on the beginnings of the incident, which Flanery had
told investigators started when three youths ran from his marked security car,
one of them holding his hand against his body as if securing a gun. The officer
did not catch them, and approached Myers shortly later, believing it was the
same person.

But Myers was wearing a GPS monitor on his ankle as a condition of his bail on
charges from June 27 of unlawful use of a weapon and resisting arrest. "Based on
this GPS information, it appears Myers was not the person Officer X was
chasing..." the prosecutor's report says.

It puts Myers at the Shaw Market, where he also is seen on video, and then going
home briefly, where acquaintances said they went for jackets.

But the officer did have reason to suspect from Myers' behavior in their
encounter that he was armed, the report says, and after they struggled had
"probable cause to give chase." It was during the foot pursuit, officials said,
that Myers fired at least three shots before Flanery returned fire. Flanery was
not hit.

Flanery declined to be interviewed separately for Joyce's investigation, so his
part of it was based on statements he made earlier to police investigators.

The circumstances of the killing of Myers, who was black, by Flanery, who is
white, drew angry protests as it occurred just two months after international
attention focused on the killing of Michael Brown, who was black, by a white
Ferguson officer Aug. 9.

An attorney for the Myers family, Jerryl Christmas, challenged Joyce's report
Monday and said he is close to filing a wrongful-death lawsuit on their behalf.

"Jason Flanery should have been charged with murder," Christmas said. "The
killing of VonDerrit was the same situation as the Walter Scott killing with the
exception that (Myers' shooting) was not on video." His was referring to the
killing of an unarmed man who fled a South Carolina officer, who was charged
with murder.

"I don't believe for a minute that VonDerrit had a weapon," Christmas said.
"Flanery threw that gun down on him just like they threw that stun gun down on
Walter Scott in South Carolina." The lawyer claimed a private autopsy showed
that Myers was shot in the back while fleeing and fatally in the head as he lay
wounded on the ground.

Asked to account for photos circulated on social media of Myers in the past
holding a gun that looked like the distinctive two-tone Smith & Wesson pistol
recovered at the scene, Christmas replied, "Prosecutors can't say with any type
of accuracy that's the same gun. All Smith & Wessons look alike."

Police initially described the confiscated gun as a Ruger, then changed it to
Smith & Wesson, saying it was an honest mistake made in haste to provide the
public with answers.

Christmas and about three dozen others gathered at 6 p.m. Monday at a makeshift
memorial where Myers died.

"I'm hurt because they took my grandbaby," Myers' grandmother Shelley
Myers-Cotton told a reporter between sobs. She said the officer "needs to be in
the jailhouse," adding, "Had it been me, I'd be in the jailhouse."

Myers' mother, Syreeta Myers, said she was "sick and tired" of seeing black
children killed by police. "I'm sick and tired of being sick and tired."

Joyce, the prosecutor, said that Myers' family attorneys never showed up for
meetings, and neither provided access to witnesses they claimed disputed the
officer's statements nor a copy of the private autopsy. She said she issued
grand jury subpoenas for three such witnesses, but one could not be found and
the others cited Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination.

"Mr. Christmas did not produce any witnesses to us who saw what happened," Joyce
said in an interview. "I have to assume that they did not have anything to offer
that would have led to prosecuting the officer or they would have come forward."

Her report says, "Based upon the investigation, prosecutors concluded that Mr.
Myers produced a firearm on the evening in question. Multiple witnesses confirm
there was gunfire coming from both directions and from two different guns at the
scene. Ballistics evidence confirms that two different guns were fired at the
scene. There is no evidence that Officer X ... was the person who fired both
guns."

It adds, "No witness claims to have seen Officer X alter evidence in any way,
such as throw down a gun, fire a weapon in any direction other than towards Mr.
Myers or scatter bullet casings. Additionally, there are witnesses that describe
how Mr. Myers illegally came into possession of the Smith and Wesson firearm
used in this matter."

In December, the police department said it found no criminal wrongdoing by
Flanery. But under new procedures, the evidence still must be reviewed by the
prosecutor for possible charges. Previously, prosecutors examined police
shootings only if the department asked.

The state crime lab found gunshot residue on Myers' hands, shirt and inside the
waistband and pockets of his jeans. Police said such residue can be present on
anyone near a shooting, but this was consistent with Myers firing a weapon.

However, Joyce's investigation concluded that the residue was not proof either
way. It also said it is "rare" to find DNA or fingerprints on a gun, and neither
was found on this one.

"The location of bullets, casings, bullet tracks and damage are consistent with
Officer X's and other witnesses' versions of events," the report said.

Police said three bullets matching the gun found with Myers had hit the ground
near where Flanery said he tried to take cover. A round that pierced a car
behind the officer was too damaged for a match but not consistent with the
officer's bullets.

Dotson said Flanery has more than six years of service and was working an
approved secondary job at the time.

"We appreciate the community's patience as this investigation was conducted and
commend the dedicated and thorough work of both the Circuit Attorney's Office
and the Force Investigative Unit," Dotson wrote. "I have pledged transparency to
the citizens of St. Louis and am committed to upholding this promise."

Protesters took to the streets of the Shaw neighborhood after Myers' death. The
first night, rocks were thrown through windows of some homes and at least one
business, three police vehicles were vandalized, and flags taken from porches
were burned.

According to Joyce's report, Flanery told investigators his reaction was slowed
that night by thoughts of Ferguson: "I didn't want to be wrong in my shoot. I
knew it was a gun but, I just, I, I wanted to be certain. So I didn't shoot, I
hesitated."

Flanery's attorney, Brian Millikan, said Monday: "There's obviously a mix of
emotions right now because it brings it all back up again." He added, "We are
relieved it's over and they concluded that no crime was committed.

"That's what we expected. They obviously did a very thorough investigation."

Millikan said Flanery became the subject of death threats after Christmas made
the officer's name public months ago.

"He's certainly aware of his surroundings, let's put it that way," Millikan
said. "But he's continuing on with his normal job and doing it well and trying
not to let this whole incident change his perspective on what he does."

With the completion of the prosecutor's investigation into the Myers shooting,
Joyce said she will turn her attention to a review of the fatal shooting of
Kajieme Powell on Aug. 19 by two city officers who said he came at them with a
knife. A bystander's cellphone video included the sound of Powell shouting,
"Shoot me! Kill me now!"

Joyce said it is too soon to know how long that investigation would take.

GRAPHIC:  Vonderitt Myers Sr., (left), Syreeta Myers, (right), the parents of of
Vonderrit Myers Jr., stand with Shelley Myers-Cotton, (center), Vonderitt Jr.'s
grandmother, stand together on Monday, May 18, 2015, before a press conference
at a makeshift memorial reacting to a statement by prosecutor Jennifer Joyce
that there will be no charges filed against the off-duty St. Louis police
officer who shot and killed Myers last October in the Shaw neighborhood. Photo
by Christian Gooden, cgooden@post-dispatch.com  A memorial to VonDerrit D. Myers
Jr. still stands in the Shaw neighborhood, as seen on Monday, May 18, 2015, the
day St. Louis Circuit Attorney Jennifer Joyce announced that no charges will be
filed against the city police officer who fatally shot Myers on Oct. 8, 2014.
Photo by David Carson, dcarson@post-dispatch.com  Vonderrit D. Myers Jr. was
shot and killed during an encounter with a St. Louis police officer who was
working a security job in the Shaw neighborhood on Oct. 8, 2014. Police say he
had a gun and fired at the officer.  Jason H. Flanery, from Instagram
Protesters march along Maury Avenue during a march for VonDerrit Myers Jr. in
south St. Louis on Sunday, Nov. 23, 2014. About 125 protesters, many who
recently took training for non-violent protests from organizers of the Ferguson
protests, took part in the march. Photo By David Carson,
dcarson@post-dispatch.com  Syreeta Myers (center right) holds a vigil on
Saturday, May 9, 2015 near the site where her son, VonDerrit D. Myers Jr, was
shot to death by an off-duty police officer who was on patrol for a private
residents' association, near the intersection of Shaw Boulevard and Klemm Street
in St. Louis. "It's a struggle," said Myers, who organizes a monthly vigil after
the Oct. 8, 2014 incident. "My son is gone. He was my only child." Photo by Huy
Mach, hmach@post-dispatch.com  Friends, family and members of the community pray
during a candlelight vigil held in memory of Vonderrit Myers Jr. on Thursday,
Oct. 9, 2014, on the 4100 block of Shaw where Myers Jr. was killed Wednesday
night. An off-duty St. Louis police officer shot and killed the African-American
Myers Jr., who police say flourished a weapon and shot three times at the
officer before the officer returned fire. Family members dispute their son had a
weapon. Photo by Laurie Skrivan, lskrivan@post-dispatch.com  Protesters block
traffic at the intersection of Kingshighway at S. Vanderventer Avenue during a
protest march for VonDerrit Myers Jr. in south St. Louis on Sunday, Nov. 23,
2014. About 125 protesters, many who recently took training for non-violent
protests from organizers of the Ferguson protests, took part in the march. Photo
By David Carson, dcarson@post-dispatch.com  Protesters march along on
Kingshighway at Interstate 44 blocking traffic during a protest march for
VonDerrit Myers Jr. in south St. Louis on Sunday, Nov. 23, 2014. About 125
protesters, many who recently took training for non-violent protests from
organizers of the Ferguson protests, took part in the march. Photo By David
Carson, dcarson@post-dispatch.com  Protesters march along Kingshighway in south
St. Louis on Sunday, Nov. 23, 2014. Police blocked traffic along Shaw Avenue,
Manchester Avenue, Kingshighway and S. Grand Boulevard as protesters marched
down the streets. About 125 protesters, many who recently took training for
non-violent protests from organizers of the Ferguson protests, took part in the
march. Photo By David Carson, dcarson@post-dispatch.com  Activists Deray
Mckesson tweets from his phone as protesters block traffic on Kingshighway at
Interstate 44 during a protest march for VonDerrit Myers Jr. in south St. Louis
on Sunday, Nov. 23, 2014. Photo By David Carson, dcarson@post-dispatch.com
Protesters block traffic at the intersection of Kingshighway at S. Vanderventer
Avenue during a protest march for VonDerrit Myers Jr. in south St. Louis on
Sunday, Nov. 23, 2014. About 125 protesters, many who recently took training for
non-violent protests from organizers of the Ferguson protests, took part in the
march. Photo By David Carson, dcarson@post-dispatch.com  Protesters stop traffic
along Kingshighway at the Interstate 44 overpass in south St. Louis on Sunday,
Nov. 23, 2014. Police blocked traffic along Shaw Avenue, Manchester Avenue,
Kingshighway and S. Grand Boulevard as protesters marched down the streets.
About 125 protesters, many who recently took training for non-violent protests
from organizers of the Ferguson protests, took part in the march. Photo By David
Carson, dcarson@post-dispatch.com  A protester blocks traffic exiting off of
Interstate 44 at S. Grand Boulevard during march for VonDerrit Myers Jr. in the
Shaw neighborhood and south St. Louis on Sunday, Nov. 23, 2014. Protesters
blocked traffic along Shaw Avenue, Manchester Avenue, Kingshighway and S. Grand
Boulevard during the march. Photo By David Carson, dcarson@post-dispatch.com
Activists Deray Mckesson and Johnetta Elzie stand at the corner of S. Grand
Boulevard and Shaw Avenue at the end of a protest march for VonDerrit Myers Jr.
in the Shaw neighborhood and south St. Louis on Sunday, Nov. 23, 2014. Mckesson
and Elzie produce a newsletter about protests in Ferguson and St. Louis related
to police shootings. Photo By David Carson, dcarson@post-dispatch.com  Kelly
Bono and her husband Andrew Bono, from Sycamore Hills, march with protesters
along S. Vanderventer Avenue during a march for VonDerrit Myers Jr. in south St.
Louis on Sunday, Nov. 23, 2014. Photo By David Carson, dcarson@post-dispatch.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVIDENCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
(89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); MICHAEL BROWN SHOOTING (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS
(78%); WITNESSES (78%); SELF DEFENSE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT
(78%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (77%); LAWYERS (75%); PROBABLE CAUSE (74%);
FORENSICS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); BAIL (71%); CHRISTMAS (61%)

PUB-SUBJECT: united states attorney; smith wesson; jennifer joyce; jason
flanery; st. louis circuit attorney; jerry christmas; vonderrit myers jr.; st.
louis police; officer involved shooting; shaw; #htop; #cp; #photostory; local;
deadly force; death; investigation; report

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2015


                              29 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      The Guelph Mercury (Ontario, Canada)

                              May 29, 2015 Friday
                                 First Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Guelph social agency to honour shooting victim

BYLINE: Rob O'Flanagan, Mercury staff

BODY:

People who knew the victim of the fatal May 20 police shooting at the Guelph
General Hospital will honour him Monday with a pizza dinner.

They will gather to remember Brandon Duncan at a downtown agency that serves
local homeless and marginalized residents.

Meanwhile, local political activists are planning to protest the use of lethal
weapons by police officers.

Ed Pickersgill co-ordinates 40 Baker St., which houses several programs and
organizations that serve "the unemployed, needy and dispossessed," according to
its website. Duncan was a longtime client of Fresh Start Housing Centre. Fresh
Start helps the homeless find shelter and sustainable housing.

Duncan, 36, was killed in the emergency department at about 1:30 p.m. on May 20,
during an interaction with two Guelph Police officers.

He was shot multiple times. The SIU has 12 investigators probing the death.

Duncan suffered from mental illness, addiction, and Crohn's disease, according
to friends and associates in the community.

He accessed services for the homeless over at least a 15-year period, and had
several lengthy stays in hospital related to Crohn's.

Pickersgill is dedicating the Monday pizza dinner at 40 Baker Street to Duncan.
It runs from 4:15 p.m. to 5:15 p.m. People will be invited to share their
thoughts and reactions on a large sheet of paper.

On the Facebook event page for the memorial, Pickersgill states Duncan was in "a
serious personal crisis resulting from homelessness, Crohn's, addiction,
loneliness and fear," at the time of his death.

"We at 40 Baker Street would like to share our pizza day supper on Monday 1st of
June in memory of Brandon Duncan so that (1) his death not go unmarked in his
community; and (2) pizza and juice and music on that day be an occasion for
those who knew him personally and for those who have shared in similar
circumstances to have a chance to give a nod of understanding that his life did
matter and that he simply should not have died the way he did."

Area funeral homes have been contacted and none is as yet managing
memorial/burial arrangements for Duncan. The SIU would not comment this week on
whether Duncan's body has been released for burial.

It's unclear where Duncan's next of kin reside. The SIU said a family member
consented to release his name to the public. That person's identity has not been
made public. Associates of Duncan in Guelph have asserted that they have no
knowledge of him having relatives in the city. They believe he was raised in
Fergus by his grandparents, who are deceased.

Monday's event at 40 Baker Street may also involve planning for a protest at an
upcoming Guelph Police Services Board meeting, said Sakura Saunders.

Saunders is a local political activist, a volunteer with the Ontario Public
Interest Research Group, and a police accountability activist. She is also the
founder of the group Disarm Toronto Police and advocates for the disarming of
front line officers.

She said discussions are underway to organize a Guelph protest or advocacy event
against the use of lethal force by police. Activists are planning to attend a
Guelph Police Service public meeting at the Shelldale Centre on Tuesday. That
session is an input forum related to the development of the police service's
next strategic business plan.

"People are definitely disturbed about it," Saunders said, speaking of the
Duncan shooting.

"I have seen a number of cases (elsewhere) of police shooting people who were
attempting self-harm or having mental health issues - coming in and shooting
first and asking questions later," she said.

While the fatal shooting of Duncan was the first by a Guelph Police officer,
Saunders said in the two years between August 2011 and August 2013, Toronto
Police were engaged with 14 people who died. Seven of those were shot to death
by police. She said none of the victims was as heavily armed as the police.

"This is one of the reasons I advocate that front line police officers are
disarmed, and that only a special force has lethal weapons," she said, speaking
of the Duncan incident. "I think the police should have been securing the area
and making sure that people were safe, including the person they ended up
killing, rather than using lethal means."

The next meeting of the Guelph Police Services Board is June 18.

roflanagan@guelphmercury.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PROTESTS &
DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (76%);
INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS
(73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS
(60%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (55%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2015


                              30 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2015 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
                             Waterloo Region Record

                              May 29, 2015 Friday
                                 First Edition

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Guelph agency to honour victim in police shooting

BYLINE: Rob O'Flanagan, News services

BODY:

People who knew the victim of the fatal May 20 police shooting at the Guelph
General Hospital will honour him Monday with a pizza dinner.

They will gather to remember Brandon Duncan at a downtown agency that serves
local homeless and marginalized residents.

Meanwhile, local political activists are planning to protest the use of lethal
weapons by police officers.

Ed Pickersgill co-ordinates 40 Baker Street, which houses several programs and
organizations that serve "the unemployed, needy and dispossessed," according to
its website. Duncan was a longtime client of Fresh Start Housing Centre, which
is located at 40 Baker St. Fresh Start helps the homeless find shelter and
sustainable housing.

Duncan, 36, was killed in the emergency department at about 1:30 p.m. on May 20,
during an interaction with two Guelph Police officers. He was shot multiple
times. The Special Investigations Unit has been assigned to the case.

Duncan suffered from mental illness, addiction, and Crohn's disease, according
to friends and associates in the community. He accessed services for the
homeless over at least a 15-year period, and had several lengthy stays in
hospital related to Crohn's.

Pickersgill is dedicating the Monday pizza dinner at 40 Baker St. to Duncan. It
runs from 4:15 p.m. to 5:15 p.m. People will be invited to share their thoughts
and reactions on a large sheet of paper.

On the Facebook event page for the memorial, Pickersgill states Duncan was in "a
serious personal crisis resulting from homelessness, Crohn's, addiction,
loneliness and fear," at the time of his death.

"We at 40 Baker Street would like to share our pizza day supper on Monday 1st of
June in memory of Brandon Duncan so that (1) his death not go unmarked in his
community; and (2) pizza and juice and music on that day be an occasion for
those who knew him personally and for those who have shared in similar
circumstances to have a chance to give a nod of understanding that his life did
matter and that he simply should not have died the way he did."

Area funeral homes have been contacted and none is as yet managing
memorial/burial arrangements for Duncan. The SIU would not comment this week on
whether Duncan's body has been released for burial.

It's unclear where Duncan's next of kin reside. The SIU said a family member
consented to release his name to the public. That person's identity has not been
made public. Associates of Duncan in Guelph have asserted that they have no
knowledge of him having relatives in the city. They believe he was raised in
Fergus by his grandparents, who are deceased.

Monday's event may also involve planning for a protest at an upcoming Guelph
Police Services Board meeting, said Sakura Saunders, a local political activist,
a volunteer with the Ontario Public Interest Research Group, and a police
accountability activist. She is also the founder of the group Disarm Toronto
Police and advocates for the disarming of front line officers.

She said discussions are underway to organize a Guelph protest or advocacy event
against the use of lethal force by police. Activists are planning to attend a
Guelph Police Service public meeting at the Shelldale Centre on Tuesday. That
session is an input forum related to the development of the police service's
next strategic business plan.

"People are definitely disturbed about it," Saunders said, speaking of the
Duncan shooting.

"I have seen a number of cases (elsewhere) of police shooting people who were
attempting self-harm or having mental health issues - coming in and shooting
first and asking questions later," she said.

While the fatal shooting of Duncan was the first by a Guelph Police officer,
Saunders said in the two years between August, 2011 and August, 2013, Toronto
Police were engaged with 14 people who died. Seven of those were shot to death
by police. She said none of the victims was as heavily armed as the police.

The next meeting of the Guelph Police Services Board is June 18.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PROTESTS &
DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES
(78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%);
UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%);
GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT (55%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2015


                              31 of 161 DOCUMENTS


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             May 27, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Woman suffered  manic break  in 22-hour standoff near Woodland Hills,
son says

BYLINE: Stephanie K. Baer

BODY:

An armed 74-year-old woman who held sheriff s deputies in a 22-hour standoff
near Woodland Hills last week was fasting and had not slept for days when she
suffered what one son called  a manic break.

At a Tuesday afternoon news conference at Los Angeles County Sheriff s
Department headquarters in Monterey Park, sheriff s officials explained how an
initial distress call of an elderly woman having difficulty breathing devolved
into what Sheriff Jim McDonnell called  a life or death situation  for the woman
and authorities.

Video: Family says woman had not shown signs of mental health issues

The incident began about 5:30 a.m. Thursday when the woman placed a call for
medical assistance from the Woodland Park Mobile Estates at 4201 Topanga Canyon
Blvd., an unincorporated section of the city.

When a firefighter approached to ask the woman how he could help her, she pulled
a gun and fled into the park.

Sheriff s deputies later found her sitting in an alcove on the back porch of a
home. That s when deputies sent in a robot to the area, said Lt. Bruce Chase.

Chase said the woman fired two rounds at the robot, causing the department to
try other tactics   tear gas, light and sound diversion, water and less lethal
impact devices   to coax her out of hiding.

Nothing worked.

We were trying to separate her from the gun,  Chase said.

At one point, the woman burrowed underneath the home where she fired three
additional rounds at authorities.

She lived in another home at the park for about 10 years, according to family
members.

It was 18 hours into the operation that the command staff decided no more
chemical agents or less lethal impact devices should be used,  McDonnell said.
She has shown zero reaction to any of it and the cumulative effect of more could
seriously injure or possibly kill her.

At 3:30 a.m. Friday, five deputies were sent under the house to forcibly remove
the woman. Only three of the five deputies were armed and none could wear any
protective gear due to the small space.

Meanwhile, the woman had one round left in her revolver.

We were prepared to use deadly force if we had to. It would have been extremely
depressing to everybody involved ... if it had ended in the use of deadly force,
Chase said.  In this particular case, ... they were going head first against an
armed suspect with no tactical protection.

Chase declined to comment on what exactly occurred beneath the home but said the
woman was handcuffed and taken into custody without incident.

The woman has not been charged and was still being treated Tuesday for a hand
injury at Northridge Hospital Medical Center. She initially suffered from
hypothermia following the overnight incident. No one else was injured.

Her two sons, who declined to be identified, said she had never exhibited signs
of mental health issues prior to the incident. It wasn t until an email she sent
to her sons on Wednesday night that they realized something was wrong.

She went down all these different threads, was never able to come back on track
and said she was writing a book that would change the world,  her elder son
said.

The two planned to check on her that weekend, not imagining what would unfold
over the next 24 hours. Neither son knew she had a gun, they said.

Fortunately she was physically tough enough to endure a situation that she put
herself in,  one son said.  We re so proud of the whole team of law enforcement
for their restraint and compassion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); SHOOTINGS (75%); FAMILY (75%); MENTAL HEALTH
(70%); COLD INJURIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015


                              32 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                Copyright 2015 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

LENGTH: 1020 words

BODY:

CITY

DOWNTOWN

Water main break forces motorists to reroute trips

A water main break Downtown on Tuesday morning rerouted some traffic while crews
worked to find and repair the problem, according to the Pittsburgh Water & Sewer
Authority.

The break happened on Seventh Street between Smithfield Street and William Penn
Place, according to a release from PWSA spokesman Brendan Schubert.

Two Downtown buildings were affected, he said.

FINEVIEW

Fatal stabbing results in prison sentence

A Pittsburgh man will serve six to nearly 17 years in prison for fatally
stabbing his girlfriend's son with a butcher knife, a judge ordered Tuesday.

Michael Monroe, 44, of Fineview pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter in
April. Prosecutors withdrew other charges in exchange for his plea but left
sentencing up to Allegheny County Common Pleas Judge Jill E. Rangos.

Pittsburgh police charged Monroe with homicide, terroristic threats and simple
assault in the death of Dereck Frye, 22, on July 6.

ALLEGHENY COUNTY

DUQUESNE

Megan's Law violations alleged; arrest made

A former Duquesne man who must register under Megan's Law for the rest of his
life was arrested on Monday afternoon on three warrants charging him with
violating the registration rules.

Russell Lavain Jennings, 62, who was released from jail on May 15 for previous
Megan's Law violations, was arrested without incident as he was leaving a
business on the South Side, Chief Allegheny County Sheriff's Deputy Kevin Kraus
said.

Deputies went to the establishment after receiving information that Jennings
would be there, Kraus said.

GLASSPORT

Rescue team saves 3 trapped in vehicles

Glassport's swift water rescue team pulled three people from flooded vehicles
during the fast-moving thunderstorms that rolled through Allegheny and
surrounding counties late Tuesday afternoon.

Citizens Hose Volunteer Fire Co. No. 1 fire Chief Wayne Lewis, who serves as the
rescue team's supervisor, said the three were pulled from two vehicles stranded
in 3 feet of water near the intersection of Broadway and Ohio avenues. Streets
were reported flooded in other parts of Glassport and several surrounding
communities. Large hail was reported in White Oak, according to National Weather
Service reports.

Trees and power lines were reported down in parts of Allegheny, Beaver,
Washington, Greene and Westmoreland counties.

PLUM

Church leader to stand trial in teen rape case

A former Plum church youth leader was ordered Tuesday to stand trial on charges
he forced a teenager to have sex with him in Lower Burrell.

Daniel Allen Jack, 31, of Lower Burrell, will be tried trial on rape and seven
other charges, including sexual assault by an employee of a nonprofit
organization. Jack denies the charges and pleaded not guilty at his preliminary
hearing.

The girl testified she met Jack at the Amplify Church in Plum in December 2013.
He was serving as one of the youth group leaders.

Defense attorney Robert Mielnicki asked Allegheny Township District Judge Cheryl
Peck Yakopec to dismiss the rape charge because the girl did not testify that
she was forced to have sex. But Westmoreland County Assistant District Attorney
Judy Petrush argued that the girl was coerced by Jack, who was her youth group
leader.

Sharpsburg

Suspected heroin leads to arrest of man, 34

Sharpsburg police arrested a Lawrenceville man Monday who possessed 10 bags of
suspected heroin, police said.

Max Traven Buriak, 34, of Lorna Way  was arrested about 12 p.m. in a part of
Sharpsburg, which police Chief Leo Rudzki said is an "area where neighbors have
been complaining about drug activity."

Buriak's bond is set at $500,000. A hearing is planned July 8.

Buriak also had two outstanding felony warrants for retail theft in Frazer and
Upper St. Clair.

Rudzki said police "observed suspicious activity, approached the individual and
made an arrest."

BUTLER COUNTY

Accidental death ruled for body in stream

A man whose body was found Saturday in a stream in Butler died as a result of an
accident, the Butler County coroner said.

Joshua Hepler, 30, of Butler was found dead about 8:30 a.m. Saturday near a
swinging bridge in Sullivan Run.

He died of blunt-force trauma to the head, Coroner William Young said.

"We think he slipped and fell. There were no witnesses,' Young said.

Woman robbed; suspect nabbed quickly

An armed man forced a Cranberry woman into the rear of her sport utility vehicle
before he drove off with some of her belongings, township police said.

Taquan Maxwell, 21, of Grove City is charged with robbery, theft, unlawful
restraint and related counts.

Maxwell approached the woman as she cleaned her vehicle in her apartment parking
lot along Dutilh Road about 8 p.m. Friday, police Sgt. Chuck Mascellino said.

An officer from Jackson spotted Maxwell's car a short time later on Interstate
79.

The gun turned out to be a pellet gun, Mascellino said.

Maxwell remained in the Butler County Prison on Tuesday.

FAYETTE COUNTY

Prison ordered for rape of 2 girls

A Uniontown man who admitted that he repeatedly raped two young girls will serve
at least 15 years in prison.

David Kinteay Carson, 38, entered guilty pleas on Tuesday to charges of rape,
statutory sexual assault, involuntary deviate sexual intercourse, aggravated
indecent assault and indecent assault.

The pleas are the result of a plea bargain in which Carson is to be sentenced to
15 to 30 years in prison, according to Phyllis Jin, assistant district attorney.
Two counts of child pornography were dropped.

WESTMORELAND COUNTY

90-year-old driver killed in collision

A 90-year-old Pittsburgh man died in a collision between a car and a pickup in
Westmoreland County on Tuesday afternoon.

The man's name was not immediately released. Police said he died before first
responders arrived.

The crash was reported about 3:30 p.m. at the intersection of Route 380 and
Utopia Road in Washington Township.

Police identified the other driver as a 60-year-old Leechburg man. Police and a
witness said he was taken by ambulance to Forbes Hospital in Monroeville.

Both motorists were driving alone when the crash occurred.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAIL SENTENCING (90%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); WATER
MAIN BREAKS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%);
CORRECTIONS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); JUDGES (89%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (79%); SHERIFFS (78%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (78%); WATER & WASTEWATER
MANAGEMENT (77%); MANSLAUGHTER (76%); LITIGATION (76%); MISDEMEANORS (76%); PLEA
AGREEMENTS (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS &
DECISIONS (75%); ARREST WARRANTS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); WEATHER
(73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER (71%);
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (68%); YOUTH CLUBS &
ACTIVITIES (64%); RELIGION (60%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%)
UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015


                              33 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved
                         The Christian Science Monitor

                               May 3, 2015 Sunday

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Baltimore cops charged in Freddie Gray death: What do police think?;
Many police don't want cops to be above the law, but they view the Freddie Gray
case in Baltimore with trepidation.

BYLINE: Mark Sappenfield Staff writer

BODY:

The police officer had just shot and killed an unarmed minority suspect who had
been trying to flee.

A fellow officer's dashboard camera caught the aftermath.

Officer Grant Morrison walks away from the scene of the shooting, his head in
his hand, reaches the side of his colleague's cruiser, and collapses, sobbing
uncontrollably.

For minutes on end, all that can be heard on the video is a fellow officer
repeating, over and over, "I've got you."

Barely able to speak, Officer Morrison stammers, "I thought he was going to pull
a gun on me."

A colleague leans over, consolingly, and whispers. "Maybe he was, maybe he
was.... You survived."

The actions of a Billings, Mont., police officer bear little relation with
whatever transpired before and after Freddie Gray was loaded, handcuffed and
unbuckled, into a police van in Baltimore weeks ago. Mr. Gray died a week later
of a severe neck injury suffered while in police custody.

But the Montana dashcam video offers at least a glimpse into why many police
look at the indictment of six police officers Friday in the death of Gray with
no small amount of trepidation.

For years, prosecutors and the United States Supreme Court have given police
officers wide leeway in their use of deadly force. Now, the terms of that
societal contract are up for robust debate, at the very least. If they are to
change - as protesters from Ferguson, Mo., to North Charleston, S.C., have
demanded - the question is how much?

Many police officers agree they must be held accountable to the law. But they
wonder if society recognizes the difficulty of the task they are often set, and
whether in the anger of the present the pendulum of police reform could swing
too far the other way.

"The big picture is that the police are always held accountable for what elected
officials can't provide for the people - for failed infrastructure and failed
policy," retired Baltimore police officer Leon Taylor told Slate.

In Baltimore, the police were tasked with holding the line between impoverished
West Baltimore and the gentrifying urban core. Whether the tactics Baltimore
police have used are necessary to maintain law and order will be addressed -
either directly or implicitly - in the trial of the six police officers.

If the officers ran afoul of the law, many fellow officers nationwide will want
to see them held responsible.

"First of all, the fundamental purpose of law enforcement is to bring violators
of the law to justice, even if those violators of the law are law enforcement
themselves," Dana Schrad, executive director for the Virginia Chiefs of Police
Association, told WBT-TV in Richmond, Va. "The officers will have their day in
court and justice will be based on the evidence."

But there is a sense among some police that society does not appreciate the
complexities and mental toll of a job where the ability to deal out death is
holstered on your hip, and the authority to do it is a badge pinned to your
chest.

"The public thinks the police are above the law, but the police see themselves
as expendable," former Officer Taylor told Slate.

In the Montana case, Morrison killed Richard Ramirez at a traffic stop in April
2014. After being told several times to put his hands up, Mr. Ramirez, who was
high on methamphetamines, reached into his waistband, Morrison told a jury at a
coroner's inquest.

"I knew in that moment, which later was determined to be untrue, but I knew in
that moment that he was reaching for a gun," Morrison said, according to Yahoo
News. "I couldn't take that risk.... I wanted to see my son grow up."

A 2011 reaction-time study found that if an officer waits until an armed suspect
raises his gun to shoot, the suspect will likely get off the first shot. The
Montana jury found that Morrison was justified in shooting Ramirez.

The fallout from Ferguson, however, has begun to change the calculus of
policing. An Ohio police officer won national praise for not shooting a murder
suspect despite the fact that the man charged him with his hand in his pocket,
telling the officer to shoot him.

Moreover, some police departments are working to open a dialogue with the black
community.

"I'd much rather they shout at me at a town hall meeting at a church and get to
know me afterward than not have a relationship," Dallas Police Chief David Brown
told the Associated Press. After a police shooting has already happened, "it's
too late to try to establish relationships."

The concern is that the passion of the moment could lead to a reverse prejudice.

"In my 20-year career as a law enforcement officer and 16 years as an attorney I
have never seen such a rush to file criminal charges, which I believe are driven
by forces separate and apart from the application of law and the facts of this
case as we've heard them," Michael Davey, a lawyer for one of the Baltimore
officers, told the media.

Ultimately, however, those officers will have to explain themselves, some police
say.

"Unfortunately I have to agree with the decision," Joseph Giacalone, a retired
New York Police Department detective sergeant, told Slate. "Because I have no
answer to why they threw him into the police van in the first place. What was
the charge? Why did they arrest him? He didn't commit any crime."

"A lot of the guys I've spoken to feel the same thing I do."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); POLICE FORCES
(78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%);
EXECUTIVES (73%); INDICTMENTS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); CITY LIFE (60%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (60%); SHOOTINGS (58%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES
(53%); CITIES (50%)

PUB-SUBJECT:

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BILLINGS, MT, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (54%); RICHMOND, VA,
USA (50%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)
UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015


                              34 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
                                  Oxford Mail

                              May 24, 2015 Sunday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2932 words

HEADLINE: Live blog: Body found in hunt for Jed Allen following murder of family
in Didcot

BYLINE: Jason Collie

BODY:

Good morning.

Here is a review of all of our coverage of the murders in Vicarage Road and the
hunt for Jed Allen.

10:08pm

9:15pm

An ambulance carrying the body believed to be Jed Allen has just left the area
in Marston Ferry Road

7:00pm

Police at the scene in Marston Ferry Road

6:45pm

The approximate location

6:35pm

Police officers and forensics staff as well as an ambulance are at a cordoned
off cycle path where the body believed to be Jed Allen has been found.

The road itself is open to traffic but it is a section of the cycle path that is
cordoned off.



I'm down at Marston Ferry where a body - believed to be Jed Allen - has been
found. pic.twitter.com/6Ek8O02EA1

- Callum Keown (@OxMailCallumK) May 25, 2015

6:31pm

The Thames Valley Police statement in full:

Thames Valley Police have found a body in connection with the murders in Didcot.
The body of a man was found in Marston Ferry Road, Oxford, just before 5pm
today.

Although the man has not been formally identified the force is satisfied it is
Jed Allen, aged 21.

The victims' families have been informed. The body was discovered in an area of
woodland accessible by two members of the public.

This area had not previously been searched by police. There is a cordon in place
at the scene.

Thames Valley Police continues its investigation into the murder of Janet
Jordon, known as Jan, Philip Howard, known as Phil, and Derin Jordon, in
Vicarage Road, Didcot, on Saturday.

However we are not looking for anyone else in connection with their murders.

An inquest will be carried out by the coroner in due course.

Det Supt Chris Ward said: "My condolences go out to the families and loved ones
of Janet Jordon, Philip Howard and Derin Jordon. We have specially trained
officers with the families and we will continue to support them at this
extremely difficult time.

"I would like to thank the public for all their help during this investigation,
as well as their patience, while we have been carrying out searches across
Oxfordshire.

"I would especially like to thank the residents of Didcot, who have co-operated
with the police during this tragic period.

"I would also like to thank the media for publishing our appeal in connection
with this investigation."



6:16pm

There is a heavy police presence in Marston Ferrry Road. We will bring you more
from the scene as soon we have it.

6:10pm

The body that police believe is Jed Allen was found close to Marston Ferry Road.

The road runs between Summertown and Marston.

6:10pm

Police confirm they have found a body they believe to be Jed Allen.

More to follow

5:30pm

Police have changed the time and location of a briefing they were due to give
the media this evening, saying it will now be held at 6pm and there is a
significant update

3:20pm

Police continue to search University Parks today for clues to the whereabouts of
Jed Allen

2:29pm

For those of you who have been following throughout the day, here is a timeline
of how events have unfolded so far, according to Thames Valley Police.

Saturday May 23

5.24pm - Jed Allen is believed to board a train leaving Didcot. 5.45pm - He
arrives in Oxford. 6pm - Allen is captured on CCTV at the WHSmith store at
Oxford railway station just before 6pm. 8.23pm - Thames Valley Police are called
to an address in Vicarage Road by a member of the public. They attend the
property and find the bodies of Philip Howard, 44, Janet Jordon, 48, and
daughter Derin, six. They are pronounced dead at the scene.

Sunday May 24

10.55am - Detectives reveal they are hunting a man called Jed Allen, 21, in
connection with the killings.

Monday May 25

1.13pm - Police release CCTV footage of Allen in a bid to raise awareness of the
search. Anyone who sees him is told to call 999.

2:23pm

Ribbons are starting to appear across Didcot in memory of Mr Howard, Ms Jordon
and Derin. These ones are tied to lamposts in Wescum Drive, where the family had
lived before moving to Vicarage Road.





1.52pm

Here's the video of Det Supt Chris Ward giving the latest information on the
police investigation, courtesy Thames Valley Police

1:45pm

Video of Derin's headteacher John Myers paying tribute to the six-year-old and
talking about how the school is supporting the community

1:35pm

A Thames Valley Police video of Det Supt Chris Ward giving the latest
information



We are releasing CCTV images of a man wanted in connection with three murders in
Didcot.The CCTV images are of Jed...

Posted by Thames Valley Police on Monday, May 25, 2015

1:29pm

Thames Valley Police spokesman James Williams has confirmed to the Oxford Mail
that the murder weapon was a knife.



1:10pm

DETECTIVES are today piecing together Jed Allen's movements in the hours before
the bodies of his sister, mother and her partner were discovered in Didcot.

Det Supt Chris Ward released these two CCTV pictures of Allen - named as a
suspect in the deaths in Vicarage Road - taken from Oxford Station just before
6pm on Saturday night. The bodies were discovered just after 8pm.

Mr Ward said: "We believe that Jed boarded a train from Didcot to Oxford at
5.24pm and arrived in Oxford at 5.45pm.

"He was then captured on CCTV at the WHSmith store at Oxford railway station
just before 6pm.

"Jed is wearing a red or maroon shirt, a dark hooded jacket with a white trim on
the zip, blue jeans and black shoes.

"After visiting WHSmith, we believe that Jed then walked to Oxford University
Parks.

"Jed is white, about 6ft, of stocky build, and has a distinctive tattoo of a
spider on his left hand.

"If you see Jed please do not approach him, instead call 999 immediately.

"We would urge anyone with any other information about the incident to contact
us via 101 quoting a new reference number of 465 (24/5). Did you see or hear
anything suspicious in Vicarage Road on Saturday? If you did then we want to
hear from you."

Mr Ward also confirmed what is believed to be the murder weapon was found at the
property in Vicarage Road.

Whilst post mortem examinations are yet to be carried out, police have said they
believe the victims were stabbed.

Mr Ward also issued a warning to anyone sheltering Allen, 21.

He said: "If you don't want to speak directly to the police you can contact the
independent charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111 or online at
www.crimestoppers-uk.org. No personal details are taken, information is not
traced or recorded and you will not go to court.

"If anyone is harbouring Jed Allen then you need to know that this is a serious
offence and we would ask you to contact us immediately."

Mr Ward added: "At this time no arrests have been made in this investigation.

"The post mortems of the victims are scheduled to take place today (25/5) and
tomorrow (26/5).

"Our search of Oxford University Parks continues today with more than 100
officers involved, including national specialist search officers who have now
joined the search.

"I can confirm that what we believe to be the murder weapon was found at the
scene of the murder in Vicarage Road, Didcot.

"Finally, I would like to thank all those members of the public who have called
in with information, as well as the media who have published our appeals."

12:59pm

Police release two CCTV images of Jed Allen taken at the WH Smith store at
Oxford Station at just before 6pm on Saturday - little more than two hours
before Jan, Phil and Derin's bodies were discovered.

More on this shortly

12:46pm

Tributes and bouquets continue to be left at Vicarage Road

12:45pm

Police remain at the house in Vicarage Road where Jan Jordon, Philip Howard and
Derin Jordon were discovered.

11:50am

Police have yet to issue any new information about the investigation so far

11:40am

John Myers, the headteacher at All Saint's Primary School where Derin was in
Year 1, said the family had just moved, but had most of their connections in the
area.

Mr Myers said: "She was a beautiful little girl, happy and gentle and smiley.
She was a wonderful little child."

He said he felt "shocked and devastated", adding: "As you can suspect I was just
shocked when I heard. It's hard to believe, but it's also the manner of it as
well. To lose any life is awful and lose a child is doubly so. But the nature of
this loss is hard to take in and comprehend."

People have now gathered at the Ladygrove Children's Centre at the school, which
is due to be open until 3pm today.

Mr Myers added: "I was here yesterday afternoon talking with friends and we just
thought we needed to offer a place for people to go.

"People need a place to gather at times like this. We thought we should open up
our doors and offer tea and coffee and a vicar.

"We have tea lights and candles and people can pray and there's gentle music."

11:25am

10:00am

A RAINBOW of ribbons will be spread across Didcot as the town pulls together
after a family of three were found murdered.

Police are still hunting for Jed Allen, 21, after the bodies of his mother Jan
Jordon, her partner Philip Howard and their six-year-old daughter Derin were
found in their Vicarage Road home.

Flowers and tributes are being left at a police cordon on the street, barely
yards from the murder scene.

Today Didcot's Ladygrove Children's Centre at All Saint's School, where Derin
was a pupil, will be open from 10am until 3pm for families to gather with their
children in support and remembrance.

Multi-coloured ribbons are also being tied around lamp posts in the area as a
tribute to the three.

The main colours being chosen are blue for Mr Howard, purple or red for Ms
Jordon and pink for six-year-old Derin, who was known affectionately as "Dezzy."

A police cordon remains on Vicarage Road, but Oxford University Parks has
reopened after police closed it off yesterday.

A full-scale manhunt, involving more than 100 police officers was launched as
Allen was named as a suspect in the case.

Police said the most likely cause of death was stabbing, and post mortem
examinations are expected to be carried out today.

Searches in Didcot and Oxford are expected to continue today as police unravel
what happened to the victims.

Yesterday armed police descended on University Parks in Oxford as part of the
investigation. The parks' gates were shut and the grounds remained closed for
most of the day.

This morning the gates were unlocked and the park appeared to have reopened.

Flowers and cuddly toys have been left on the cordon in Didcot, just yards from
the crime scene.

A tribute signed by Mary, Dilly and Mally started: "To my best friend Jan, Dezzy
& my anorexic Phil & my gorgeous boy Jed,

"You are my family & always will be.

"I always said Jan you were too kind for this world.

"My heart is broken & will never be the same again."



How the investigation developed over Saturday and Sunday

Det Supt Chris Ward said the most likely cause of the deaths of the trio - whose
bodies were found in their home in Vicarage Road just before 8.30pm on Saturday
- was stabbing.

Neighbours in Didcot have told the Oxford Mail that Allen regularly stayed at
the family's previous address in Wensum Drive.

Mr Howard was 44, Ms Jordon 48 and Derin six and Mr Ward said: "We offer our
condolences to the family. This is obviously a tragic and sad event."

Mr Ward, of Thames Valley Police's major crime unit, said officers were hunting
for Allen, 21, as the force released a picture of him and appealed for anyone
who sees him to call them on 101.

He added that post mortem examinations will be carried out today.

Police were called to the property just before 8.30pm on Saturday

Paramedics declared all three people dead at the scene.

No one has been arrested and more than 100 police officers are now involved in
the case.

At about 4.25pm yesterday a private ambulance pulled up at the scene and the
three bodies were brought out of the property.





Police arrive at Oxford University Parks and put on riot gear

Police in riot gear, along with police dogs, were yesterday seen entering Oxford
University Parks after the grounds were shut as part of the investigation.

An armed police officer was also seen walking through the park.

Some 20 officers were seen entering the park in two large police vans at the
South Lodge car park, by St Cross Street. A blue tent has been put up by that
entrance.

All were carrying riot shields and they marched northwards into the grounds.

The gates were locked and a police helicopter was seen hovering over the area.

Police are hunting for Jed Allen in connection with a triple murder in Didcot

A lot of activity appeared to be happening toward the north-east end of the
grounds, near the River Cherwell.

Passers-by were told by police and Oxford University security officers that the
parks would be shut all day.

Roland Rossler, 44, a tourist from Hamburg, said: "I just came down to
university parks this morning and I was told they are shut.

"I heard there is a murder and now police are looking for someone.

"It's very worrying."



Police at the gates of Oxford University Parks

Police confirmed that Allen was once a groundskeeper for Oxford Univeristy and
Didcot Town Council's website lists a man of the same name having been an
apprentice gardener with the authority.

At a press conference yesterday morning, Mr Ward appealed for the public's help
to find Allen.

He said: "It is very important that we locate him as quickly as we can.

"I do not believe that there are any dangers to the wider community of Oxford,
however given the nature of what we are dealing with, it's imporatnt that we
find him as quickly and safely as possible."

Allen is 21, of large build, white, and has a distinctive tattoo of a spider on
his left hand, Mr Ward said.

He was related to the victims.

Allen was formerly a groundsman for Oxford University, Mr Ward said, and there
are searches going on in relation to that.

His Facebook page says he studied at Marlborough School. He came from Didcot but
now lives in Oxford, the page also says.



Mr Ward said claims that a firearm was involved in their deaths were not true
but added: "I do not want to speculate at the cause of death at the moment.

"I don't know how long the victims were [dead in the house] but we are
concentrating on the last 24 hours."

Their families had been informed of their deaths, Mr Ward added.

The three people had moved in to the house only within the past two months but
had lived in the area before that.

Mr Ward is now appealing for anyone who was in Vicarage Road in the past 24
hours to call detectives on 101 quoting a new reference number of 465 (24/5).

The road is now sealed off as police carry out their investigations.

Three scenes of crime officers were seen going into the house about 8.15am
yesterday.

There were at least 12 police officers at the scene.

Police held a press conference at 10.30am and we will be covering it live as it
happens.

A former landlady of Ms Jordon said that she had known the 48-year-old and Allen
when they rented a house from her in Kidlington.

Jane Ilott, 68, said: "I didn't know Jed as a 6ft man, I know him as a little
fella who was really struggling."

The pensioner explained that her 48-year-old former tenant was not the kind of
person that you got to know well, and that she moved into one of her houses
before moving to Didcot.

"He lived with his dad and he was a lovely, lovely boy. He would come down some
weekends, he would either be with his nan, who lives in Kidlington, or with his
mum.

She continued: "We did far more than a landlord and landlady would have done, we
tried to be good neighbours."

Asked if there was a man in Ms Jordon's life when she was living in Kidlington,
Mrs Illot said: "I used to get knocks on the door, little disagreements with
people knocking on my door and asking for the keys and I would say 'No'.

Adding that she would turn them away even when they claimed that Ms Jordon had
said it was ok for them to go in, Mrs Ilott said: "That would be one of many,
I'm only being honest. I'm not saying she was a nasty girl because she wasn't,
she was a lovely girl with a problem."

Det Chief Insp Simon Steel of the Thames Valley Police Major Crime Unit, said:
"Thames Valley Police has launched a murder investigation in Didcot after
receiving a call from a member of the public at 8.23pm yesterday (23/5).

"Police officers attended the scene and three bodies were found inside the
property. A man, a woman and a girl were pronounced dead at the scene by
ambulance staff. Their deaths are being treated as suspicous.

"This is a tragic incident and our thoughts are with the loved ones of the
deceased.

"I would like to reassure the public that we are carrying out a thorough
investigation into the incident.

"We would urge anyone with any information about the incident to contact us
immediately via 101 quoting reference number 1370 (23/5). Did you see or hear
anything suspicious in Vicarage Road this evening? If you did then we want to
hear from you.

"If you don't want to speak directly to the police you can contact the
independent charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111 or online at
www.crimestoppers-uk.org.

"No personal details are taken, information is not traced or recorded and you
will not go to court.

"A scene watch is in place in Vicarage Road, which is currently closed with
access to residents only.

"I understand this incident will have an impact on the community and residents
will be concerned.

"As you can understand, we are in the early stages of this investigation, but we
will work hard to make sure the community is kept updated when we can."

A spokesman from South Central Ambulance Service said: "We were called at 8.33pm
to an incident in Vicarage Road, in Didcot.

"We sent two ambulance crews, an ambulance officer and our Enhanced Care
Response Unit.

"Sadly, three people were confirmed deceased at the scene.

"An adult male, an adult female and a child."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (74%);
POLICE FORCES (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OXFORD, ENGLAND (57%) ENGLAND (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2015


                              35 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                                US Official News

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday

LENGTH: 5059  words

HEADLINE: Washington: Head of Civil Rights Division Vanita Gupta Delivers
Remarks at the University of Chicago Institute of Politics

DATELINE: Washington

BODY:

 US Department of Justice, The Government of USA has issued the following news
release:

Thank you, Steve [Edwards, Executive Director of the Institute of Politics], for
inviting me here today. It's an honor to speak with you about the work of the
Civil Rights Division, particularly our work to ensure that policing is done in
accordance with the Constitution and to help local police departments and the
communities they serve build trust where it has eroded.

Eric Garner. Tamir Rice. John Crawford. Walter Scott. Freddie Gray.

These names and many others have become familiar to us under tragic
circumstances in recent months.

Their deaths and those of other unarmed African-American men and women in
encounters with police officers have provoked widespread responses across the
country and have fueled the Black Lives Matter movement. In communities of
color, in particular, the reaction has been stark and sobering.

In the seven months I have been at the Civil Rights Division, I have spent a lot
of time with local leaders and community members in cities all across America,
including with numerous mothers who have lost their children in officer-involved
shootings. The pain, anger, frustration--the lack of trust in the police--is
real, and it is profound. Again and again, people have told me that young people
are losing faith in our justice system and view law enforcement as preying on
them rather than protecting their loved ones. They talk about how the police
don't value their rights, or indeed, their lives. They talk about being tired of
being viewed as criminals first, human beings second.

The conversation in these rooms, however, is not about whether to have police or
not, but about what kind of policing communities want and deserve.

There is no question that we need police in our communities. Police officers
ensure the safety of our communities by patrolling neighborhoods, defending the
rights of victims and deterring crime. They are our first responders in many
emergency situations. And they can be role models for our young people.

The overwhelming majority of the women and men who police our streets do their
jobs with honor, pride and distinction. Most of these individuals are driven to
the police academy out of a commitment to public service and a desire to make an
impact in their communities. As we are reminded by the senseless and tragic
assassinations of New York Police Department (NYPD) Detectives Rafael Ramos and
Wenjian Liu in December, the shooting of two officers in Ferguson in March, and
the tragic injuries inflicted on officers in Baltimore a few weeks ago, officers
do all of this at considerable risk to themselves.

I am struck everywhere I go by the wide gap in empathy and common language to
discuss these problems. Because in the very same cities and rooms where I speak
with folks in the community, I hear from law enforcement who emphasize their
responsibility to enforce the law and how they are doing the best job they can.
They feel attacked and undervalued. They talk about how the actions of a few bad
actors have tarnished the whole profession. They talk about the fact that
department budgets have been slashed over the last several years, resulting in
drastic cuts for community policing and neighborhood patrols. They point out
that they are constantly making split second decisions and people don't account
for the thousands of times situations don't escalate. They talk about how the
daily stress of their jobs takes a toll. And they are right about all of this.

Despite these divergent themes, there is one commonality in all rooms I am in.
And that is that everyone agrees that we are confronting grave challenges when
it comes to the erosion of trust between police and the communities they serve
throughout the United States. The level of mistrust and resentment is
unsettling. Some, including NYPD Commissioner William Bratton, call it a
"crisis."

The consequences of distrust between law enforcement and the communities they
serve can be devastating. Where people perceive the criminal justice system to
be arbitrary, biased and unfair, they are less likely to cooperate with law
enforcement, making us all less safe. The distrust and alienation experienced in
some communities can build into a powder keg of resentment, ready to be ignited
by a single tragic incident. We have seen this over and over--in Watts in 1965,
in Los Angeles in 1992 and most recently, in Ferguson in 2014.

It's worth asking, first, how did we get here? And second, what are we going to
do about it?

Let's start with the first question and consider the source of the mistrust.
Mistrust can't be explained away as the kneejerk reaction of the ill-informed or
the hyperbolic. It has many sources. For some people, it's in part the product
of historical awareness about the role that police played, as Commissioner
Bratton recently told a group of officers, in "slavery, Reconstruction, Jim
Crow, lynchings, blockbusting." FBI Director James Comey has likewise noted, "At
many points in American history, law enforcement enforced the status quo, a
status quo that was often brutally unfair to disfavored groups." As Commissioner
Bratton explained, this history has an enduring effect. "None of us did these
things," he told his audience of officers. "None of us were troopers on the
bridge at Selma. But it doesn't matter that these things happened before many of
us were even born. What matters is that our history follows us like a second
shadow."

The mistrust is also the product of lived experience, of negative interactions
that individuals - or their family members, friends or neighbors - have had with
law enforcement. Something as quietly humiliating as being mistreated during a
traffic stop, or being followed in a retail store. These stories can circulate
through a neighborhood - or these days, across the nation via the web and social
media - and they can build up over time into a painful narrative that divides
community members and police.

The lack of trust also undeniably results from our criminal justice policies
over the last few decades, and the concentrated impact they have had on
communities of color and people living in poverty. Law enforcement practices
such as the stopping and frisking of young black men based on stereotypes.
Sentencing policies that result in mass incarceration, particularly of people of
color. And the devastating consequences that convictions have had on
individuals' ability to find work, secure stable housing and reintegrate as full
members of society. We bear the responsibility to confront these consequences
and reevaluate our approach to criminal justice.

The Civil Rights Division's investigation and March 2015 report on the Ferguson
Police Department (FPD) speaks to much of what I have been talking about.

In Ferguson, we found a community where unlawful police practices created an
intensely charged atmosphere where people feel under siege by those charged to
serve and protect them.

We determined that the FPD engages in a pattern or practice of conduct that
violates the United States Constitution and federal law. Specifically, we found
that Ferguson PD routinely:

Conducts stops without reasonable suspicion and arrests without probable cause,
in violation of the Fourth Amendment;

Uses excessive force in violation of the Fourth Amendment;

Unlawfully interferes with First Amendment rights, including the right to record
and to protest police activity;

Impermissibly discriminates against African Americans in violation of the 14th
Amendment and federal statutory law; and

Violates due process and equal protection in the operation of its Municipal
Court.

We found that this unconstitutional conduct stems from the interaction of two
dynamics: Ferguson's undue focus on revenue generation through policing and
pervasive racial bias in the police department and court system.

These dynamics fostered unconstitutional practices at nearly every level of
Ferguson's law enforcement system. One example: During the summer of 2012, a
Ferguson officer detained a 32-year-old African-American man who had just
finished playing basketball at a park. The officer approached while the man was
sitting in his car, cooling off.

The car's windows appeared to be more heavily tinted than Ferguson's code
allowed, so the officer may have had grounds to question him. But, with no
apparent justification, the officer proceeded to escalate the situation,
accusing the man of being a pedophile. He prohibited the man from using his cell
phone and ordered him out of his car for a pat-down search, even though he had
no reason to suspect that the man was armed. And when the man objected - citing
his constitutional rights - the police officer drew his gun, pointed it at the
man's head and arrested him on eight different counts. The arrest caused the man
to lose his job.

We observed that even minor code violations can sometimes result in multiple
arrests, jail time and payments that exceed the cost of the original ticket many
times over.

For example, in 2007, one woman received two parking tickets that - together -
totaled $152. To date, she has paid $550 in fines and fees to the city of
Ferguson.

She's been arrested twice for having unpaid tickets and she has spent six days
in jail. Yet she still - inexplicably - owes Ferguson $541. Her story is only
one of dozens of similar accounts that our investigation uncovered.

In Ferguson, we also found evidence of unlawful discrimination. African
Americans make up 67 percent of the population, but from 2012 to 2014, they
constituted:

85 percent of the people subject to a vehicle stop;

90 percent of people who received a citation; and

93 percent of people arrested.

And discretionary police actions were overwhelmingly concentrated on the black
population. To take just one example, 95 percent of "manner of walking in
roadway" charges - that's jaywalking - were levied against African Americans.

We found racial disparities in virtually every available metric. From 2012 to
2014, African Americans were more than twice as likely as white drivers to be
searched during vehicle stops, but 26 percent less likely to be found in
possession of contraband. In 88 percent of cases in which FPD documented the use
of force, force was used against African Americans. In all cases in which
canines were used against subjects for whom racial information is available, the
subject was African-American.

The evidence of racial bias comes not only from statistics, but also from
remarks made by police and court supervisors in disturbing email messages. The
emails were incontrovertible evidence of a culture infected by racial bias.

These findings reveal that the public trust in Ferguson law enforcement and its
criminal justice system, especially among African Americans, was damaged long
before August 2014. When there is this level of broad community distrust, public
safety suffers and the job of delivering police services is rendered more
difficult and more dangerous.

In many ways, Ferguson is not an anomaly. We know from our work around the
country that some of the same police and court practices that we identified in
Ferguson - and the same deficit of trust between police officers and communities
- exist in many other places. Local officials recognize this, as well. I know of
several police chiefs around the country who have assigned the report as
required reading for their officers. And in light of the report, cities around
the country are beginning to re-examine their policing and municipal court
practices. Undoubtedly, there is much more work to do, but there's also much to
be hopeful about.

In many communities, thoughtful police and city leaders are working to
re-prioritize community policing and rebuild community trust. Take Cleveland.
Mayor Frank Jackson asked the Civil Rights Division to investigate the Cleveland
Division of Police (CDP) in March 2013.

In December 2014, we announced the results of our investigation, concluding that
Cleveland officers engage in a pattern or practice of unreasonable and
unnecessary force, including deadly force such as shootings and head strikes
with impact weapons. We also found that the pattern of excessive force had
eroded public confidence in the police.

Thanks to the commitment of Mayor Jackson, Police Chief Calvin Williams, the
city's police unions and community members, we entered into a negotiated reform
agreement a mere five months after issuing our initial report. The agreement
takes the form of a consent decree that will be independently monitored and
enforceable in court.

It's a truly innovative and comprehensive agreement. It addresses officer needs
by requiring CDP to develop an Equipment and Resource Plan to ensure that
officers have the equipment they need - such as computers and safe vehicles - to
do their jobs safely. It calls for additional training and an effective employee
assistance program to give officers ready access to mental health and support
resources.

It sets up a new Community Police Commission - made up of 10 civilian
representatives from across the city and one member from each of the city's
three police unions - that will work with the Division of Police to improve
community policing, bias-free policing and transparency. Through this body, the
Cleveland community will play a central role in the development of many
important polices, including those related to use of force and search and
seizure.

The agreement also calls for:

A civilian head of Internal Affairs, to ensure that internal investigations of
misconduct are impartial and reliable;

Specialized training in interacting with persons in mental health crisis, and a
Mental Health Response Advisory Committee to foster relationships between the
police, the community and mental health providers;

Revised use-of-force policies and training that will require officers to use
de-escalation techniques, rather than force, wherever possible;

Strengthened reporting and supervision requirements, along with broad data
collection; and

Many other provisions aimed at promoting public safety and building trust
between the police and the community.

The Cleveland agreement reflects a commitment by the City and the Division of
Police to work with the Cleveland community to transform this police agency into
a model of community-oriented policing. The agreement also demonstrates that
people can come together across perceived differences to realize a common vision
of a safer, more just city.

Baltimore is another city in which local officials are stepping up to tackle
longstanding divisions and police-community divisions. Last month, Mayor
Stephanie Rawlings-Blake asked us to investigate the Baltimore Police Department
for a pattern or practice of civil rights violations.

That same day, the City's police commissioner and police union released
statements agreeing with the Mayor's request and welcoming our involvement. Gene
Ryan, President of the Baltimore City Fraternal Order of Police Lodge No. 3,
released a statement stating that the union intends to "fully cooperate with any
investigation that has the potential to correct departmental deficiencies and
improve the morale of our members . . . As the labor union that represents the
nearly 3,000 active duty members of the agency, we agree with (the) Mayor on her
invitation to the Department of Justice and welcome their investigation fully as
we, too, have issues with many of the current policies and procedures of the
department." After considering the relevant factors, we accepted the City's
invitation and opened an investigation.

Wherever this investigation may lead - we don't know what we'll find, and we
will never prejudge any outcome - our goal is to work with the community, public
officials, law enforcement officers and police unions to help build a stronger,
better Baltimore.

As events in both Cleveland and Baltimore show, the commitment of all of these
local actors is essential if we are to move forward. To restore trust where it
has been badly eroded. To promote healing - and address problems that are common
to so many great cities across America.

I said there were two questions - what the sources of mistrust are and what we
are going to do about it. The second question is hard, but we have an
unprecedented opportunity now to address fundamental problems in the way
communities across the country interact with police and with the criminal
justice system more generally.

While the Civil Rights Division and others in this room and beyond have been
working on policing issues for many years, the nation is paying attention
because communities are demanding it. The reality is we tend to confront
systemic problems only when forced to by seemingly extraordinary events.

Journalists now are doing impressive investigative reporting on excessive force,
racial profiling and police-community relations. Universities are doing
important research and analysis of these problems. And families are talking
about them at the dinner table.

Importantly, the focus on policing issues is happening in a broader conversation
about the need to reform our criminal justice system. There is no question, and
I speak from personal experience, that 15 years ago, criminal justice reform was
a lonely endeavor. Few on the Left or the Right were willing to champion its
cause. Today, there is a widespread, even bipartisan, recognition that our
criminal justice system needs an overhaul that it should not be the go-to answer
for social problems and that mass incarceration has damaged this country in
countless ways. Law enforcement leaders themselves talk about how they have
become first responders for a whole host of social problems, including
homelessness, mental illness, drug dependency and school discipline.

There is now growing consensus that in too many places, the only response we
have made available to these challenges is arrest and incarceration as opposed
to evidence-based, alternative interventions. There is real reform taking place
on these broader criminal justice issues right now.

For these reasons, we should be optimistic about this moment. The public is
engaged and there is an opportunity for real progress.

What is the work ahead? At the Civil Rights Division, we have redoubled our
efforts to ensure that policing is done in accordance with the Constitution and
to help local police departments and the communities they serve build trust
where it has eroded.

We can and do prosecute individual police officers for intentional misconduct.
In fact, we have prosecuted nearly 400 law enforcement officers over just the
last six years for constitutional violations. This includes our joint
prosecution with the Chicago U.S. Attorney's Office of former Chicago Police
Department Commander Jon Burge in 2010 on perjury and obstruction charges,
relating to the torture and abuse of detainees in the 1980s.

Criminal prosecution, however, is only one tool, and a limited one at that. We
also engage in systemic reform of police departments, like in Ferguson and
Cleveland. Since the start of the administration, the Division has opened 22
investigations into police departments. We have also entered into 17 agreements
with law enforcement agencies, including consent decrees in New Orleans; Puerto
Rico; Seattle; Portland, Oregon; Detroit; the Virgin Islands; East Haven,
Connecticut; Warren, Ohio; Albuquerque, New Mexico; and Los Angeles. The
department currently has eight open investigations. In the majority of these
investigations the Division has issued findings or technical assistance letters.

As discussed above, the Division is often invited into communities with the
support of elected officials, law enforcement, police unions and communities.
Working together with police officers and community members, we are helping to
change the way police services are delivered, to reduce the use of unnecessary
force and to combat the influence of racial and ethnic bias in police decision
making. We call the last five years of our work in this area "Police Reform 2.0"
because we learned a lot from the first 15 years of enforcement and we have
incorporated lessons learned from that first decade and a half into our more
recent efforts. "Police Reform 2.0" entails exhaustive engagement with the
community through individual interviews and town hall meetings. We meet with
local officials and civil rights leaders. We learn from law enforcement leaders.
And we spend a lot of time speaking with line officers and with police unions.
Too often, they tell us that they lack adequate support, training, policy
guidance, supervision and even equipment to keep them safe and allow them to
engage in constitutional policing that keeps them and the public safe.

Even after we announce our findings, we continue intensive engagement with all
of the various stakeholders, including community leaders, line officers and
police unions to help shape the remedies that we negotiate at arm's length with
city officials. In Ferguson, we have met with several community groups and held
an open community forum to learn how area residents wanted to see their police
department and court system change. Several weeks ago, our attorneys facilitated
small group discussions, standing at oversized notepads with marker in hand,
taking down the groups' ideas. In our view, this is how reform starts. The
stakeholders must feel investment in the remedies laid out in our agreements for
them to be successful and sustainable.

Through this inclusive approach to reform, we have identified certain elements
that are absolutely required to build trust and police legitimacy where they
have eroded. For example, police commanders must create opportunities for line
officers to have positive interactions, outside of the enforcement context, with
individuals they may encounter as victims, witnesses or subjects.

This is a fundamental component of community policing. Departments must also
commit to transparency, because the more communities know about police activity,
the more operations can reflect community values and priorities. Structured
community engagement is vital - there are a host of models for that and I know
you will be having a panel about civilian oversight. We need better research and
data. There is a lot we don't know that we should, so thoughtful data collection
and analysis is a priority.

There must be fair, consistent and robust internal and external systems of
accountability so that police departments can course correct when problems are
identified. Improper bias - both explicit and implicit bias - must be identified
and corrected. Critically, officers must be given the specialized training to do
their jobs consistent with community values and the professional support to cope
with stress and trauma they encounter on the job. They need training to ensure
de-escalation with the mentally ill and others in crisis, as well as to ensure
respectful interactions with LGBTI, immigrants with language barriers and other
vulnerable populations.

And procedural justice matters. Research shows that being treated fairly and
respectfully matters more than the ultimate result of a person's interaction
with police.

We build these concepts into all of our consent decrees.

Over the past three years, the Division has successfully concluded the
implementation of three consent decrees, as well as a memorandum of agreement.
Most recently, on May 11, 2015, the Division and the U.S. Attorney's Office
announced that the Missoula, Montana, Police Department had fully implemented
the requirements of its agreement with the department to improve its response to
reports of sexual assault. The Missoula Police Department's successful
implementation of the agreement in just two years illustrates the power of
government, police and community leaders working together to create change that
makes law enforcement and communities safer and stronger.

The Civil Rights Division is trying to address problems in policing from every
angle. For example, our Educational Opportunities Section is working to disrupt
the school-to-prison pipeline by intervening where school discipline practices
are overly punitive and disproportionately enforced against students of color.
Our Employment Litigation Section has brought suits around the country to end
discrimination in police hiring. And our Federal Coordination and Compliance
Section is working to ensure that police and court services are available to
those with limited English proficiency.

The department, and indeed the President, are committed to these issues, as
well. The President recently highlighted several initiatives designed to rebuild
trust between police departments and the communities they serve. He received the
final report from his landmark White House Task Force on 21st Century Policing.

He highlighted an open data project where technologists, police associations,
and community organizations will use data and technology to reduce use of force
and increase transparency, and he highlighted the recently created body worn
camera toolkit. And he announced the launch of the law enforcement equipment
review of federal programs that support acquisitions of equipment by state,
local, and tribal law enforcement agencies.

In March, former Attorney General Holder announced the six pilot cities for the
new National Initiative for Building Community Trust and Justice, an innovative
$4.75 million program designed to enhance procedural justice, reduce bias and
support reconciliation between communities and law enforcement. Attorney General
Lynch is dedicated to continuing the department's commitment to these issues.
She recently launched a national tour promoting community policing and announced
$163 million in grant money available to advance the recommendations of the
White House Task Force on 21st Century Policing.

Importantly, we know that our reform work must go beyond the mechanics of good
policing. We as a society must address the inequality and unfairness that
pervade the larger criminal justice system. Often, an encounter with police is
only the first contact in a process that involves prosecutors, defense
attorneys, courts, correctional institutions and community supervision.
Individuals experience these as facets of a unitary system, not as individual
institutions. We cannot merely focus on reforming police tactics without
focusing on transforming broader criminal justice laws and priorities.

That's why the Department of Justice has expanded its efforts in these other
areas in recent years. Through the Smart on Crime Initiative, former Attorney
General Holder instructed prosecutors to exercise their discretion to avoid
charging low-level drug offenders with mandatory minimum sentences, resulting in
the first drop in the federal prison population in 32 years, with no resulting
increase in crime.

Along with the Access to Justice Initiative, the Civil Rights Division has
advocated for increased resources for state public defense systems and for
reform of local courts and jails that imprison individuals who are too poor to
afford their fines. And we have brought a record number of suits to address
conditions in America's jails and prisons, including the use of solitary
confinement on juveniles and those with mental illness. Only by addressing the
criminal justice system as a whole will be build the lasting trust between
police and the communities that most need their services.

So that's a small window into what we're doing in the policing and criminal
justice areas. Ultimately, change requires commitment and work at the local
level - through persistent and authentic engagement between law enforcement and
the communities they serve. That is one of the reasons that we work so closely
with U.S. Attorneys around the country and here in Chicago. The U.S. Attorneys
provide essential expertise and knowledge to the Division as we address similar
issues in sometimes very different communities. Zachary Fardon and his staff are
crucial partners to the Civil Rights Division in this work.

Before I leave, let me be clear about something: We can accomplish the sweeping
reform I have discussed. In Portland, Oregon, for example, two and a half years
after we identified an institutional pattern of excessive force against people
with mental illness, police officers are being retrained, accountability
measures implemented and the incidence of using force has dropped dramatically.
And in East Haven, Connecticut, residents are seeing transformative change in
their police department just two years after the entry of a consent decree with
the Justice Department. There is reason to be optimistic and believe that we can
achieve reform that will keep individuals, communities and police safe and
ensure that communities have fair, impartial and constitutional policing.

There is undoubtedly much work to be done, but law enforcement and communities
alike feel the urgency right now. The commitment of the Civil Rights Division,
U.S. Attorneys and the Justice Department is part of this work, as is commitment
by attorneys and local bar associations. Criminal justice reform at legislatures
and city councils is part of this work. And strong law enforcement leadership
throughout the country is part of this work.

Beyond the federal government and the legal community, there are concrete roles
for people committed to improving police-community relations, enabling racial
reconciliation and promoting justice. It may seem trite but it is powerful when
local communities and law enforcement engage directly and constructively with
each other, when local leaders have relationships with police chiefs, when we
can understand each others' perspectives, each others' lives. This is hard,
unsung work, but it's essential. And there's a role here for anyone who wants a
safer, fairer, more equal society.

There is no problem too intractable or impossible for people committed to
justice. Justice requires hope and hard, persistent work. We cannot sit idly by
and hope that the public attention these issues are receiving will diminish,
because they won't, or at least not for long. And so I thank you for your work
and for your commitment to justice. Thank you.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

PUB-SUBJECT: National

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                              36 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                                US Official News

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday

LENGTH: 5090  words

HEADLINE: Arizona: Head of Civil Rights Division Vanita Gupta Delivers Remarks
at the University of Chicago Institute of Politics

DATELINE: Phoenix

BODY:

 Department of Justice has issued the following news release:

Thank you, Steve [Edwards, Executive Director of the Institute of Politics], for
inviting me here today.  It's an honor to speak with you about the work of the
Civil Rights Division, particularly our work to ensure that policing is done in
accordance with the Constitution and to help local police departments and the
communities they serve build trust where it has eroded.

Eric Garner.  Tamir Rice.  John Crawford.  Walter Scott.  Freddie Gray.

These names and many others have become familiar to us under tragic
circumstances in recent months.

Their deaths and those of other unarmed African-American men and women in
encounters with police officers have provoked widespread responses across the
country and have fueled the Black Lives Matter movement.  In communities of
color, in particular, the reaction has been stark and sobering.

In the seven months I have been at the Civil Rights Division, I have spent a lot
of time with local leaders and community members in cities all across America,
including with numerous mothers who have lost their children in officer-involved
shootings.  The pain, anger, frustration--the lack of trust in the police--is
real, and it is profound.  Again and again, people have told me that young
people are losing faith in our justice system and view law enforcement as
preying on them rather than protecting their loved ones.  They talk about how
the police don't value their rights, or indeed, their lives.  They talk about
being tired of being viewed as criminals first, human beings second.

The conversation in these rooms, however, is not about whether to have police or
not, but about what kind of policing communities want and deserve.

There is no question that we need police in our communities.  Police officers
ensure the safety of our communities by patrolling neighborhoods, defending the
rights of victims and deterring crime.  They are our first responders in many
emergency situations.  And they can be role models for our young people.

The overwhelming majority of the women and men who police our streets do their
jobs with honor, pride and distinction.  Most of these individuals are driven to
the police academy out of a commitment to public service and a desire to make an
impact in their communities.  As we are reminded by the senseless and tragic
assassinations of New York Police Department (NYPD) Detectives Rafael Ramos and
Wenjian Liu in December, the shooting of two officers in Ferguson in March, and
the tragic injuries inflicted on officers in Baltimore a few weeks ago, officers
do all of this at considerable risk to themselves.

I am struck everywhere I go by the wide gap in empathy and common language to
discuss these problems.  Because in the very same cities and rooms where I speak
with folks in the community, I hear from law enforcement who emphasize their
responsibility to enforce the law and how they are doing the best job they can.
They feel attacked and undervalued.  They talk about how the actions of a few
bad actors have tarnished the whole profession.  They talk about the fact that
department budgets have been slashed over the last several years, resulting in
drastic cuts for community policing and neighborhood patrols.  They point out
that they are constantly making split second decisions and people don't account
for the thousands of times situations don't escalate.  They talk about how the
daily stress of their jobs takes a toll.  And they are right about all of this.

Despite these divergent themes, there is one commonality in all rooms I am in.
And that is that everyone agrees that we are confronting grave challenges when
it comes to the erosion of trust between police and the communities they serve
throughout the United States.  The level of mistrust and resentment is
unsettling.  Some, including NYPD Commissioner William Bratton, call it a
"crisis."

The consequences of distrust between law enforcement and the communities they
serve can be devastating.  Where people perceive the criminal justice system to
be arbitrary, biased and unfair, they are less likely to cooperate with law
enforcement, making us all less safe.  The distrust and alienation experienced
in some communities can build into a powder keg of resentment, ready to be
ignited by a single tragic incident.  We have seen this over and over--in Watts
in 1965, in Los Angeles in 1992 and most recently, in Ferguson in 2014.

It's worth asking, first, how did we get here?  And second, what are we going to
do about it?

Let's start with the first question and consider the source of the mistrust.
Mistrust can't be explained away as the kneejerk reaction of the ill-informed or
the hyperbolic.  It has many sources.  For some people, it's in part the product
of historical awareness about the role that police played, as Commissioner
Bratton recently told a group of officers, in "slavery, Reconstruction, Jim
Crow, lynchings, blockbusting."  FBI Director James Comey has likewise noted,
"At many points in American history, law enforcement enforced the status quo, a
status quo that was often brutally unfair to disfavored groups."  As
Commissioner Bratton explained, this history has an enduring effect.  "None of
us did these things," he told his audience of officers.  "None of us were
troopers on the bridge at Selma.  But it doesn't matter that these things
happened before many of us were even born.  What matters is that our history
follows us like a second shadow."

The mistrust is also the product of lived experience, of negative interactions
that individuals - or their family members, friends or neighbors - have had with
law enforcement.  Something as quietly humiliating as being mistreated during a
traffic stop, or being followed in a retail store.  These stories can circulate
through a neighborhood - or these days, across the nation via the web and social
media - and they can build up over time into a painful narrative that divides
community members and police.

The lack of trust also undeniably results from our criminal justice policies
over the last few decades, and the concentrated impact they have had on
communities of color and people living in poverty.  Law enforcement practices
such as the stopping and frisking of young black men based on stereotypes.
Sentencing policies that result in mass incarceration, particularly of people of
color.  And the devastating consequences that convictions have had on
individuals' ability to find work, secure stable housing and reintegrate as full
members of society.  We bear the responsibility to confront these consequences
and reevaluate our approach to criminal justice.

The Civil Rights Division's investigation and March 2015 report on the Ferguson
Police Department (FPD) speaks to much of what I have been talking about.

In Ferguson, we found a community where unlawful police practices created an
intensely charged atmosphere where people feel under siege by those charged to
serve and protect them.

We determined that the FPD engages in a pattern or practice of conduct that
violates the United States Constitution and federal law.  Specifically, we found
that Ferguson PD routinely:

Conducts stops without reasonable suspicion and arrests without probable cause,
in violation of the Fourth Amendment;

Uses excessive force in violation of the Fourth Amendment;

Unlawfully interferes with First Amendment rights, including the right to record
and to protest police activity;

Impermissibly discriminates against African Americans in violation of the 14th
Amendment and federal statutory law; and

Violates due process and equal protection in the operation of its Municipal
Court.

We found that this unconstitutional conduct stems from the interaction of two
dynamics: Ferguson's undue focus on revenue generation through policing and
pervasive racial bias in the police department and court system.

These dynamics fostered unconstitutional practices at nearly every level of
Ferguson's law enforcement system.  One example: During the summer of 2012, a
Ferguson officer detained a 32-year-old African-American man who had just
finished playing basketball at a park.  The officer approached while the man was
sitting in his car, cooling off.

The car's windows appeared to be more heavily tinted than Ferguson's code
allowed, so the officer may have had grounds to question him.  But, with no
apparent justification, the officer proceeded to escalate the situation,
accusing the man of being a pedophile.  He prohibited the man from using his
cell phone and ordered him out of his car for a pat-down search, even though he
had no reason to suspect that the man was armed.  And when the man objected -
citing his constitutional rights - the police officer drew his gun, pointed it
at the man's head and arrested him on eight different counts.  The arrest caused
the man to lose his job.

We observed that even minor code violations can sometimes result in multiple
arrests, jail time and payments that exceed the cost of the original ticket many
times over.

For example, in 2007, one woman received two parking tickets that - together -
totaled $152.  To date, she has paid $550 in fines and fees to the city of
Ferguson.

She's been arrested twice for having unpaid tickets and she has spent six days
in jail.  Yet she still - inexplicably - owes Ferguson $541.  Her story is only
one of dozens of similar accounts that our investigation uncovered.

In Ferguson, we also found evidence of unlawful discrimination.  African
Americans make up 67 percent of the population, but from 2012 to 2014, they
constituted:

85 percent of the people subject to a vehicle stop;

90 percent of people who received a citation; and

93 percent of people arrested.

And discretionary police actions were overwhelmingly concentrated on the black
population.  To take just one example, 95 percent of "manner of walking in
roadway" charges - that's jaywalking - were levied against African Americans.

We found racial disparities in virtually every available metric.  From 2012 to
2014, African Americans were more than twice as likely as white drivers to be
searched during vehicle stops, but 26 percent less likely to be found in
possession of contraband.  In 88 percent of cases in which FPD documented the
use of force, force was used against African Americans.  In all cases in which
canines were used against subjects for whom racial information is available, the
subject was African-American.

The evidence of racial bias comes not only from statistics, but also from
remarks made by police and court supervisors in disturbing email messages.  The
emails were incontrovertible evidence of a culture infected by racial bias.

These findings reveal that the public trust in Ferguson law enforcement and its
criminal justice system, especially among African Americans, was damaged long
before August 2014.  When there is this level of broad community distrust,
public safety suffers and the job of delivering police services is rendered more
difficult and more dangerous.

In many ways, Ferguson is not an anomaly.  We know from our work around the
country that some of the same police and court practices that we identified in
Ferguson - and the same deficit of trust between police officers and communities
- exist in many other places.  Local officials recognize this, as well.  I know
of several police chiefs around the country who have assigned the report as
required reading for their officers.  And in light of the report, cities around
the country are beginning to re-examine their policing and municipal court
practices.  Undoubtedly, there is much more work to do, but there's also much to
be hopeful about.

In many communities, thoughtful police and city leaders are working to
re-prioritize community policing and rebuild community trust.  Take Cleveland.
Mayor Frank Jackson asked the Civil Rights Division to investigate the Cleveland
Division of Police (CDP) in March 2013.

In December 2014, we announced the results of our investigation, concluding that
Cleveland officers engage in a pattern or practice of unreasonable and
unnecessary force, including deadly force such as shootings and head strikes
with impact weapons.  We also found that the pattern of excessive force had
eroded public confidence in the police.

Thanks to the commitment of Mayor Jackson, Police Chief Calvin Williams, the
city's police unions and community members, we entered into a negotiated reform
agreement a mere five months after issuing our initial report.  The agreement
takes the form of a consent decree that will be independently monitored and
enforceable in court.

It's a truly innovative and comprehensive agreement.  It addresses officer needs
by requiring CDP to develop an Equipment and Resource Plan to ensure that
officers have the equipment they need - such as computers and safe vehicles - to
do their jobs safely.  It calls for additional training and an effective
employee assistance program to give officers ready access to mental health and
support resources.

It sets up a new Community Police Commission - made up of 10 civilian
representatives from across the city and one member from each of the city's
three police unions - that will work with the Division of Police to improve
community policing, bias-free policing and transparency.  Through this body, the
Cleveland community will play a central role in the development of many
important polices, including those related to use of force and search and
seizure.

The agreement also calls for:

A civilian head of Internal Affairs, to ensure that internal investigations of
misconduct are impartial and reliable;

Specialized training in interacting with persons in mental health crisis, and a
Mental Health Response Advisory Committee to foster relationships between the
police, the community and mental health providers;

Revised use-of-force policies and training that will require officers to use
de-escalation techniques, rather than force, wherever possible;

Strengthened reporting and supervision requirements, along with broad data
collection; and

Many other provisions aimed at promoting public safety and building trust
between the police and the community.

The Cleveland agreement reflects a commitment by the City and the Division of
Police to work with the Cleveland community to transform this police agency into
a model of community-oriented policing.  The agreement also demonstrates that
people can come together across perceived differences to realize a common vision
of a safer, more just city.

Baltimore is another city in which local officials are stepping up to tackle
longstanding divisions and police-community divisions.  Last month, Mayor
Stephanie Rawlings-Blake asked us to investigate the Baltimore Police Department
for a pattern or practice of civil rights violations.

That same day, the City's police commissioner and police union released
statements agreeing with the Mayor's request and welcoming our involvement.
Gene Ryan, President of the Baltimore City Fraternal Order of Police Lodge No.
3, released a statement stating that the union intends to "fully cooperate with
any investigation that has the potential to correct departmental deficiencies
and improve the morale of our members . . . As the labor union that represents
the nearly 3,000 active duty members of the agency, we agree with (the) Mayor on
her invitation to the Department of Justice and welcome their investigation
fully as we, too, have issues with many of the current policies and procedures
of the department."  After considering the relevant factors, we accepted the
City's invitation and opened an investigation.

Wherever this investigation may lead - we don't know what we'll find, and we
will never prejudge any outcome - our goal is to work with the community, public
officials, law enforcement officers and police unions to help build a stronger,
better Baltimore.

As events in both Cleveland and Baltimore show, the commitment of all of these
local actors is essential if we are to move forward.  To restore trust where it
has been badly eroded.  To promote healing - and address problems that are
common to so many great cities across America.

I said there were two questions - what the sources of mistrust are and what we
are going to do about it.  The second question is hard, but we have an
unprecedented opportunity now to address fundamental problems in the way
communities across the country interact with police and with the criminal
justice system more generally.

While the Civil Rights Division and others in this room and beyond have been
working on policing issues for many years, the nation is paying attention
because communities are demanding it.  The reality is we tend to confront
systemic problems only when forced to by seemingly extraordinary events.

Journalists now are doing impressive investigative reporting on excessive force,
racial profiling and police-community relations.  Universities are doing
important research and analysis of these problems.  And families are talking
about them at the dinner table.

Importantly, the focus on policing issues is happening in a broader conversation
about the need to reform our criminal justice system.  There is no question, and
I speak from personal experience, that 15 years ago, criminal justice reform was
a lonely endeavor.  Few on the Left or the Right were willing to champion its
cause.  Today, there is a widespread, even bipartisan, recognition that our
criminal justice system needs an overhaul that it should not be the go-to answer
for social problems and that mass incarceration has damaged this country in
countless ways.  Law enforcement leaders themselves talk about how they have
become first responders for a whole host of social problems, including
homelessness, mental illness, drug dependency and school discipline.

There is now growing consensus that in too many places, the only response we
have made available to these challenges is arrest and incarceration as opposed
to evidence-based, alternative interventions.  There is real reform taking place
on these broader criminal justice issues right now.

For these reasons, we should be optimistic about this moment.  The public is
engaged and there is an opportunity for real progress.

What is the work ahead?  At the Civil Rights Division, we have redoubled our
efforts to ensure that policing is done in accordance with the Constitution and
to help local police departments and the communities they serve build trust
where it has eroded.

We can and do prosecute individual police officers for intentional misconduct.
In fact, we have prosecuted nearly 400 law enforcement officers over just the
last six years for constitutional violations.   This includes our joint
prosecution with the Chicago U.S. Attorney's Office of former Chicago Police
Department Commander Jon Burge in 2010 on perjury and obstruction charges,
relating to the torture and abuse of detainees in the 1980s.

Criminal prosecution, however, is only one tool, and a limited one at that.  We
also engage in systemic reform of police departments, like in Ferguson and
Cleveland.  Since the start of the administration, the Division has opened 22
investigations into police departments.  We have also entered into 17 agreements
with law enforcement agencies, including consent decrees in New Orleans; Puerto
Rico; Seattle; Portland, Oregon; Detroit; the Virgin Islands; East Haven,
Connecticut; Warren, Ohio; Albuquerque, New Mexico; and Los Angeles.  The
department currently has eight open investigations.  In the majority of these
investigations the Division has issued findings or technical assistance letters.

As discussed above, the Division is often invited into communities with the
support of elected officials, law enforcement, police unions and communities.
Working together with police officers and community members, we are helping to
change the way police services are delivered, to reduce the use of unnecessary
force and to combat the influence of racial and ethnic bias in police decision
making.  We call the last five years of our work in this area "Police Reform
2.0" because we learned a lot from the first 15 years of enforcement and we have
incorporated lessons learned from that first decade and a half into our more
recent efforts.  "Police Reform 2.0" entails exhaustive engagement with the
community through individual interviews and town hall meetings.  We meet with
local officials and civil rights leaders.  We learn from law enforcement
leaders.  And we spend a lot of time speaking with line officers and with police
unions.  Too often, they tell us that they lack adequate support, training,
policy guidance, supervision and even equipment to keep them safe and allow them
to engage in constitutional policing that keeps them and the public safe.

Even after we announce our findings, we continue intensive engagement with all
of the various stakeholders, including community leaders, line officers and
police unions to help shape the remedies that we negotiate at arm's length with
city officials.  In Ferguson, we have met with several community groups and held
an open community forum to learn how area residents wanted to see their police
department and court system change.  Several weeks ago, our attorneys
facilitated small group discussions, standing at oversized notepads with marker
in hand, taking down the groups' ideas.  In our view, this is how reform starts.
The stakeholders must feel investment in the remedies laid out in our agreements
for them to be successful and sustainable.

Through this inclusive approach to reform, we have identified certain elements
that are absolutely required to build trust and police legitimacy where they
have eroded.  For example, police commanders must create opportunities for line
officers to have positive interactions, outside of the enforcement context, with
individuals they may encounter as victims, witnesses or subjects.

This is a fundamental component of community policing.  Departments must also
commit to transparency, because the more communities know about police activity,
the more operations can reflect community values and priorities.  Structured
community engagement is vital - there are a host of models for that and I know
you will be having a panel about civilian oversight.  We need better research
and data.  There is a lot we don't know that we should, so thoughtful data
collection and analysis is a priority.

There must be fair, consistent and robust internal and external systems of
accountability so that police departments can course correct when problems are
identified.  Improper bias - both explicit and implicit bias - must be
identified and corrected.  Critically, officers must be given the specialized
training to do their jobs consistent with community values and the professional
support to cope with stress and trauma they encounter on the job.  They need
training to ensure de-escalation with the mentally ill and others in crisis, as
well as to ensure respectful interactions with LGBTI, immigrants with language
barriers and other vulnerable populations.

And procedural justice matters.  Research shows that being treated fairly and
respectfully matters more than the ultimate result of a person's interaction
with police.

We build these concepts into all of our consent decrees.

Over the past three years, the Division has successfully concluded the
implementation of three consent decrees, as well as a memorandum of agreement.
Most recently, on May 11, 2015, the Division and the U.S. Attorney's Office
announced that the Missoula, Montana, Police Department had fully implemented
the requirements of its agreement with the department to improve its response to
reports of sexual assault.  The Missoula Police Department's successful
implementation of the agreement in just two years illustrates the power of
government, police and community leaders working together to create change that
makes law enforcement and communities safer and stronger.

The Civil Rights Division is trying to address problems in policing from every
angle.  For example, our Educational Opportunities Section is working to disrupt
the school-to-prison pipeline by intervening where school discipline practices
are overly punitive and disproportionately enforced against students of color.
Our Employment Litigation Section has brought suits around the country to end
discrimination in police hiring.  And our Federal Coordination and Compliance
Section is working to ensure that police and court services are available to
those with limited English proficiency.

The department, and indeed the President, are committed to these issues, as
well. The President recently highlighted several initiatives designed to rebuild
trust between police departments and the communities they serve.  He received
the final report from his landmark White House Task Force on 21st Century
Policing.

He highlighted an open data project where technologists, police associations,
and community organizations will use data and technology to reduce use of force
and increase transparency, and he highlighted the recently created body worn
camera toolkit.  And he announced the launch of the law enforcement equipment
review of federal programs that support acquisitions of equipment by state,
local, and tribal law enforcement agencies.

In March, former Attorney General Holder announced the six pilot cities for the
new National Initiative for Building Community Trust and Justice, an innovative
$4.75 million program designed to enhance procedural justice, reduce bias and
support reconciliation between communities and law enforcement.  Attorney
General Lynch is dedicated to continuing the department's commitment to these
issues.  She recently launched a national tour promoting community policing and
announced $163 million in grant money available to advance the recommendations
of the White House Task Force on 21st Century Policing.

Importantly, we know that our reform work must go beyond the mechanics of good
policing.  We as a society must address the inequality and unfairness that
pervade the larger criminal justice system.  Often, an encounter with police is
only the first contact in a process that involves prosecutors, defense
attorneys, courts, correctional institutions and community supervision.
Individuals experience these as facets of a unitary system, not as individual
institutions.  We cannot merely focus on reforming police tactics without
focusing on transforming broader criminal justice laws and priorities.

That's why the Department of Justice has expanded its efforts in these other
areas in recent years.  Through the Smart on Crime Initiative, former Attorney
General Holder instructed prosecutors to exercise their discretion to avoid
charging low-level drug offenders with mandatory minimum sentences, resulting in
the first drop in the federal prison population in 32 years, with no resulting
increase in crime.

Along with the Access to Justice Initiative, the Civil Rights Division has
advocated for increased resources for state public defense systems and for
reform of local courts and jails that imprison individuals who are too poor to
afford their fines.  And we have brought a record number of suits to address
conditions in America's jails and prisons, including the use of solitary
confinement on juveniles and those with mental illness.  Only by addressing the
criminal justice system as a whole will be build the lasting trust between
police and the communities that most need their services.

So that's a small window into what we're doing in the policing and criminal
justice areas.  Ultimately, change requires commitment and work at the local
level - through persistent and authentic engagement between law enforcement and
the communities they serve.  That is one of the reasons that we work so closely
with U.S. Attorneys around the country and here in Chicago.  The U.S. Attorneys
provide essential expertise and knowledge to the Division as we address similar
issues in sometimes very different communities. Zachary Fardon and his staff are
crucial partners to the Civil Rights Division in this work.

Before I leave, let me be clear about something:  We can accomplish the sweeping
reform I have discussed.  In Portland, Oregon, for example, two and a half years
after we identified an institutional pattern of excessive force against people
with mental illness, police officers are being retrained, accountability
measures implemented and the incidence of using force has dropped dramatically.
And in East Haven, Connecticut, residents are seeing transformative change in
their police department just two years after the entry of a consent decree with
the Justice Department.  There is reason to be optimistic and believe that we
can achieve reform that will keep individuals, communities and police safe and
ensure that communities have fair, impartial and constitutional policing.

There is undoubtedly much work to be done, but law enforcement and communities
alike feel the urgency right now.   The commitment of the Civil Rights Division,
U.S. Attorneys and the Justice Department is part of this work, as is commitment
by attorneys and local bar associations.  Criminal justice reform at
legislatures and city councils is part of this work.  And strong law enforcement
leadership throughout the country is part of this work.

Beyond the federal government and the legal community, there are concrete roles
for people committed to improving police-community relations, enabling racial
reconciliation and promoting justice.  It may seem trite but it is powerful when
local communities and law enforcement engage directly and constructively with
each other, when local leaders have relationships with police chiefs, when we
can understand each others' perspectives, each others' lives.  This is hard,
unsung work, but it's essential.  And there's a role here for anyone who wants a
safer, fairer, more equal society.

There is no problem too intractable or impossible for people committed to
justice.  Justice requires hope and hard, persistent work.  We cannot sit idly
by and hope that the public attention these issues are receiving will diminish,
because they won't, or at least not for long.  And so I thank you for your work
and for your commitment to justice.  Thank you.


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

PUB-SUBJECT: National

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                              37 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             June 20, 2015 Saturday

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: US police plagued by warrior spirit of shoot more, talk less

BYLINE: The Nation

BODY:

Social change has brought blacks into police forces around the country
â[#x20ac]" but that hasn't solved the problem of excessive force being used
against African-Americans

Pat Reber

Deutsche Presse-Agentur

Washington

A car backfires in the streets of Cleveland, Ohio. Nearby police think it's
gunfire. Thus begins the November 2012 chase. Sixty police cruisers race at 160
kilometres per hour for more than 20 minutes until they corner the car. Police
fire 137 rounds. One white officer, Michael Brelo, jumps on the hood and fires
his Glock 17 pistol 49 times at driver Timothy Russell and passenger Malissa
Williams â[#x20ac]" unarmed African-Americans with police records. Both are
killed.

No one knows for sure how many civilians are killed every year by US police or
die in police custody. The website Killed by Police has logged 474 deaths so far
this year, an average of three per day so far in 2015.

The Washington Post last month examined 385 deaths by police gunshot and found
80 per cent of the victims had been armed with lethal weapons. Half were white,
half black. Sixteen per cent â[#x20ac]" or 62 of the dead â[#x20ac]" were
unarmed people, two-thirds of them black or Hispanics.

Blacks make up only 13 per cent of the US population.

Nearly a year since the police killings of two unarmed black males â[#x20ac]"
Eric Garner in New York City in July, and teenager Michael Brown in Ferguson,
Missouri in August â[#x20ac]" questions about excessive use of force by police
and racial bias have provoked not only angry riots over Brown's and other
killings but also soul-searching in the police community.

"Sometimes it seems like our young officers want to get into an athletic event
with people they want to arrest," said Dallas, Texas, police chief David Brown,
an African-American, at a recent symposium of police chiefs organised by the
Police Executive Research Forum (PERF).

'Don't retreat' mentality

"They have a 'don't retreat' mentality. They feel like they're warriors, and
they can't back down when someone is running from them, no matter how minor the
underlying crime is," he said.

Over decades, the US Supreme Court has reduced police authority.

Police must now inform suspects of their right to an attorney before
questioning, and may not use deadly force in a chase unless the suspect
threatens "death or serious physical injury to the officer or others".

These days, bystanders with cell phone cameras, the post-9/11expansion of
security cameras and social media have created a new round of scrutiny on how
police behave.

Last year in Canada, which also grapples with the issue, 22 cameras filmed the
actions of a Toronto police officer as he used three shots to down a mentally
disturbed, knife-wielding Syrian man â[#x20ac]" then fired another six shots
into the prone body.

Police advocates worry that the high profile films, protests and riots after the
killing of Brown, Freddie Gray in Baltimore, Garner and others have demonised
police and threatened their lives.

Police being targeted

At least 54 officers have died in the course of duty this year so far, and at
least five are believed to have been targeted killings.

Eugene O'Donnell, an ex-New York police officer and professor at John Jay
College of Criminal Justice at the City University of New York, condemned the
"great smearing" of police in his tribute to a New York officer recently felled
by assault.

"Cops today find themselves challenged during routine calls, cameras thrust in
their faces, accused of discriminatory treatment by many," he wrote.

But others in the police community are equally worried about the killings of
suspects, and are calling for changes in the way police are prepared for duty.

"Yes, they might be shooting too many people, but that's a training issue more
than a race issue ... We blame cops for things that aren't their fault
â[#x20ac]" society's racism, or how they are trained," says Peter Moskos, a
former Baltimore police officer who teaches at the local John Jay College of
Criminal Justice.

In fact, three of the six Baltimore police officers charged in the death of
Freddie Gray in April are black, challenging the notion that excessive force is
just a white-on-black issue.

Experts say training needs to include preparation for how to disengage,
de-escalate and step back, police chiefs and advocates say. Training needs to
give permission to back off when circumstances allow, said Cassandra Deck-Brown,
police chief in Raleigh, North Carolina and an African-American, at the PERF
symposium.

The concept of community policing has pushed more police back to walking the
beat, getting to know the people they are charged with protecting. For Moskos
and others, the push has largely succeeded and cops are using less force now
than they did 20 and 30 years ago, even if it seems otherwise in social media.

Nonetheless, police officers â[#x20ac]" whether black or white â[#x20ac]" tend
to be conservative, and the people who are doing the firearms training "are
often the most militaristic and conservative" of police trainers, Moskos said.

"It's the mentality side of those conservative trainers that then gets passed
down to cops, and that's not necessarily good," he said.

"The public is rightfully upset."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); SHOOTINGS
(90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%);
EMERGENCY VEHICLES (78%); RIOTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); POPULATION SIZE
(78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); FIREARMS (76%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (71%); MICHAEL BROWN SHOOTING (69%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%);
WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY
(60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL
(60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (55%); NASH HOLDINGS LLC (55%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120
TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%);
NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA
(79%) OHIO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015


                              38 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             June 20, 2015 Saturday

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: US police plagued by warrior spirit of shoot more, talk less

BYLINE: The Nation

BODY:

Social change has brought blacks into police forces around the country
â[#x20ac]" but that hasn't solved the problem of excessive force being used
against African-Americans

Pat Reber

Deutsche Presse-Agentur

Washington

A car backfires in the streets of Cleveland, Ohio. Nearby police think it's
gunfire. Thus begins the November 2012 chase. Sixty police cruisers race at 160
kilometres per hour for more than 20 minutes until they corner the car. Police
fire 137 rounds. One white officer, Michael Brelo, jumps on the hood and fires
his Glock 17 pistol 49 times at driver Timothy Russell and passenger Malissa
Williams â[#x20ac]" unarmed African-Americans with police records. Both are
killed.

No one knows for sure how many civilians are killed every year by US police or
die in police custody. The website Killed by Police has logged 474 deaths so far
this year, an average of three per day so far in 2015.

The Washington Post last month examined 385 deaths by police gunshot and found
80 per cent of the victims had been armed with lethal weapons. Half were white,
half black. Sixteen per cent â[#x20ac]" or 62 of the dead â[#x20ac]" were
unarmed people, two-thirds of them black or Hispanics.

Blacks make up only 13 per cent of the US population.

Nearly a year since the police killings of two unarmed black males â[#x20ac]"
Eric Garner in New York City in July, and teenager Michael Brown in Ferguson,
Missouri in August â[#x20ac]" questions about excessive use of force by police
and racial bias have provoked not only angry riots over Brown's and other
killings but also soul-searching in the police community.

"Sometimes it seems like our young officers want to get into an athletic event
with people they want to arrest," said Dallas, Texas, police chief David Brown,
an African-American, at a recent symposium of police chiefs organised by the
Police Executive Research Forum (PERF).

'Don't retreat' mentality

"They have a 'don't retreat' mentality. They feel like they're warriors, and
they can't back down when someone is running from them, no matter how minor the
underlying crime is," he said.

Over decades, the US Supreme Court has reduced police authority.

Police must now inform suspects of their right to an attorney before
questioning, and may not use deadly force in a chase unless the suspect
threatens "death or serious physical injury to the officer or others".

These days, bystanders with cell phone cameras, the post-9/11expansion of
security cameras and social media have created a new round of scrutiny on how
police behave.

Last year in Canada, which also grapples with the issue, 22 cameras filmed the
actions of a Toronto police officer as he used three shots to down a mentally
disturbed, knife-wielding Syrian man â[#x20ac]" then fired another six shots
into the prone body.

Police advocates worry that the high profile films, protests and riots after the
killing of Brown, Freddie Gray in Baltimore, Garner and others have demonised
police and threatened their lives.

Police being targeted

At least 54 officers have died in the course of duty this year so far, and at
least five are believed to have been targeted killings.

Eugene O'Donnell, an ex-New York police officer and professor at John Jay
College of Criminal Justice at the City University of New York, condemned the
"great smearing" of police in his tribute to a New York officer recently felled
by assault.

"Cops today find themselves challenged during routine calls, cameras thrust in
their faces, accused of discriminatory treatment by many," he wrote.

But others in the police community are equally worried about the killings of
suspects, and are calling for changes in the way police are prepared for duty.

"Yes, they might be shooting too many people, but that's a training issue more
than a race issue ... We blame cops for things that aren't their fault
â[#x20ac]" society's racism, or how they are trained," says Peter Moskos, a
former Baltimore police officer who teaches at the local John Jay College of
Criminal Justice.

In fact, three of the six Baltimore police officers charged in the death of
Freddie Gray in April are black, challenging the notion that excessive force is
just a white-on-black issue.

Experts say training needs to include preparation for how to disengage,
de-escalate and step back, police chiefs and advocates say. Training needs to
give permission to back off when circumstances allow, said Cassandra Deck-Brown,
police chief in Raleigh, North Carolina and an African-American, at the PERF
symposium.

The concept of community policing has pushed more police back to walking the
beat, getting to know the people they are charged with protecting. For Moskos
and others, the push has largely succeeded and cops are using less force now
than they did 20 and 30 years ago, even if it seems otherwise in social media.

Nonetheless, police officers â[#x20ac]" whether black or white â[#x20ac]" tend
to be conservative, and the people who are doing the firearms training "are
often the most militaristic and conservative" of police trainers, Moskos said.

"It's the mentality side of those conservative trainers that then gets passed
down to cops, and that's not necessarily good," he said.

"The public is rightfully upset."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); SHOOTINGS
(90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%);
EMERGENCY VEHICLES (78%); RIOTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); POPULATION SIZE
(78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); FIREARMS (76%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (71%); MICHAEL BROWN SHOOTING (69%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%);
WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY
(60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL
(60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (55%); NASH HOLDINGS LLC (55%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120
TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%);
NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA
(79%) OHIO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015


                              39 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: San Jose: Officer cleared in fatal South San Jose shooting of woman
holding drill

BYLINE: By Robert Salonga rsalonga@mercurynews.com

BODY:

SAN JOSE -- A San Jose police officer has been cleared in the fatal shooting of
a bipolar 19-year-old woman during an August encounter in which she walked
outside with a cordless power drill painted black, which officers thought might
be a machine gun.

Prosecutors announced Thursday that Officer Wakana Okuma, a 13-year veteran,
acted lawfully when she fired a single shot from her AR-15 rifle at Diana
Showman the morning of Aug. 14 in front of her father's South San Jose home, on
Blossom Hill Road near Playa del Rey.

"Officer Okuma believed the drill was a firearm and thought she was going to be
killed by Showman," the Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office states in
its officer-involved shooting report.

Showman's parents have repeatedly challenged that contention, saying their
daughter might not have taken her medication for bipolar disorder that morning
and was not a threat. Police have said that the emergency call in which she
claimed to be armed and made threats against her family forced their response.

The family filed a claim against the city of San Jose in February to preserve
their right to file a lawsuit and seek damages, and are pushing for changes in
police training and use of force. Her family believed that after two decades
with an affliction that demanded constant attention and an array of medications,
independence had become a real possibility for the Leigh High School graduate,
an avid softball player and mentor for special-needs children.

"The DA's report doesn't change anything for us," said Victoria Showman, Diana's
mother. "We're committed for Diana's death to have meaning. This isn't going to
stop us."

Okuma, one of the first officers to respond to the scene, was certified in
Crisis Intervention Team training and specialized in handling calls involving
the mentally ill. But the report states that "because of how quickly the events
unfolded, Officer Okuma did not think that her Crisis Intervention Training came
into play."

Steven Clark, an attorney representing the Showman family, challenged that
stance. He noted the report's finding that Diana Showman was on the phone with a
police dispatcher for at least 20 minutes before she emerged from the home.

"We take strong umbrage with the contention there was not enough time to
defuse," Clark said. "This is (the) exact situation where that training can be
used."

If anything, the shooting makes the case for increased and ongoing training,
said Jim Showman, Diana's father.

"There's got to be a different outcome," he said. "There is no way Diana's
actions justified her life being taken."

On the morning of the shooting, Diana Showman called 911 and reportedly told
emergency dispatchers she had an Uzi and was going to shoot her mother and
brother, who she said were locked in a bedroom. Police later learned no one else
was home at the time.

According to police and witnesses, Showman exited her home just before 11 a.m.
with an item in each hand. She soon dropped one of the items, later identified
as the cellphone she used to call 911. But she kept the second item, later
revealed to be a cordless drill painted black, in her right hand and walked
slowly toward the officers, defying their orders to drop it, instead alternating
between raising and lowering it. As she got near Okuma -- estimates range from
10 feet to as far as 30 feet -- the officer fired.

"Given the appearance of the painted drill and the dispatcher's report that the
suspect claimed to be armed with an Uzi, Officer Okuma believed and was
reasonable in believing that the drill was some type of firearm," the report
stated.

The report states that the drill, which did not have a bit inside, was
originally yellow, and investigators suspect Showman spray-painted it black the
morning of the shooting. Police found a can of spray paint matching the color of
the drill inside the garage.

Victoria Showman wants to see independent panels review officer-involved
shootings, and she said she hopes that the national conversation over use of
force continues. Clark added that as officers are increasingly relied on to
respond to mental health crises -- owing in part to a dearth of public resources
available -- police must revamp their approach.

"Too many officer-involved shootings involve people with mental health
challenges. The Showmans want to give a voice to those people. They're speaking
for others," Clark said. "They want to see those numbers change."

Contact Robert Salonga at 408-920-5002. Follow him at Twitter.com/robertsalonga
.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE
FORCES (78%); FIREARMS (78%); CHILDREN (75%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (73%); DISABLED
PERSONS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); LAWYERS (70%); SPORTS INSTRUCTION (70%); SUITS
& CLAIMS (69%); DAMAGES (67%); SOFTBALL (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%)
CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015


                              40 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved
                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: San Jose: Officer cleared in fatal South San Jose shooting of woman
holding drill

BYLINE: By Robert Salonga rsalonga@mercurynews.com

BODY:

SAN JOSE -- A San Jose police officer has been cleared in the fatal shooting of
a bipolar 19-year-old woman during an August encounter in which she walked
outside with a cordless power drill painted black, which officers thought might
be a machine gun.

Prosecutors announced Thursday that Officer Wakana Okuma, a 13-year veteran,
acted lawfully when she fired a single shot from her AR-15 rifle at Diana
Showman the morning of Aug. 14 in front of her father's South San Jose home, on
Blossom Hill Road near Playa del Rey.

"Officer Okuma believed the drill was a firearm and thought she was going to be
killed by Showman," the Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office states in
its officer-involved shooting report.

Showman's parents have repeatedly challenged that contention, saying their
daughter might not have taken her medication for bipolar disorder that morning
and was not a threat. Police have said that the emergency call in which she
claimed to be armed and made threats against her family forced their response.

The family filed a claim against the city of San Jose in February to preserve
their right to file a lawsuit and seek damages, and are pushing for changes in
police training and use of force. Her family believed that after two decades
with an affliction that demanded constant attention and an array of medications,
independence had become a real possibility for the Leigh High School graduate,
an avid softball player and mentor for special-needs children.

"The DA's report doesn't change anything for us," said Victoria Showman, Diana's
mother. "We're committed for Diana's death to have meaning. This isn't going to
stop us."

Okuma, one of the first officers to respond to the scene, was certified in
Crisis Intervention Team training and specialized in handling calls involving
the mentally ill. But the report states that "because of how quickly the events
unfolded, Officer Okuma did not think that her Crisis Intervention Training came
into play."

Steven Clark, an attorney representing the Showman family, challenged that
stance. He noted the report's finding that Diana Showman was on the phone with a
police dispatcher for at least 20 minutes before she emerged from the home.

"We take strong umbrage with the contention there was not enough time to
defuse," Clark said. "This is (the) exact situation where that training can be
used."

If anything, the shooting makes the case for increased and ongoing training,
said Jim Showman, Diana's father.

"There's got to be a different outcome," he said. "There is no way Diana's
actions justified her life being taken."

On the morning of the shooting, Diana Showman called 911 and reportedly told
emergency dispatchers she had an Uzi and was going to shoot her mother and
brother, who she said were locked in a bedroom. Police later learned no one else
was home at the time.

According to police and witnesses, Showman exited her home just before 11 a.m.
with an item in each hand. She soon dropped one of the items, later identified
as the cellphone she used to call 911. But she kept the second item, later
revealed to be a cordless drill painted black, in her right hand and walked
slowly toward the officers, defying their orders to drop it, instead alternating
between raising and lowering it. As she got near Okuma -- estimates range from
10 feet to as far as 30 feet -- the officer fired.

"Given the appearance of the painted drill and the dispatcher's report that the
suspect claimed to be armed with an Uzi, Officer Okuma believed and was
reasonable in believing that the drill was some type of firearm," the report
stated.

The report states that the drill, which did not have a bit inside, was
originally yellow, and investigators suspect Showman spray-painted it black the
morning of the shooting. Police found a can of spray paint matching the color of
the drill inside the garage.

Victoria Showman wants to see independent panels review officer-involved
shootings, and she said she hopes that the national conversation over use of
force continues. Clark added that as officers are increasingly relied on to
respond to mental health crises -- owing in part to a dearth of public resources
available -- police must revamp their approach.

"Too many officer-involved shootings involve people with mental health
challenges. The Showmans want to give a voice to those people. They're speaking
for others," Clark said. "They want to see those numbers change."

Contact Robert Salonga at 408-920-5002. Follow him at Twitter.com/robertsalonga
.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE
FORCES (78%); FIREARMS (78%); CHILDREN (75%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (73%); DISABLED
PERSONS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); LAWYERS (70%); SPORTS INSTRUCTION (70%); SUITS
& CLAIMS (69%); DAMAGES (67%); SOFTBALL (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%)
CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015


                              41 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                                US Official News

                              May 19, 2015 Tuesday

LENGTH: 4719  words

HEADLINE: Washington: Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta
Delivers Remarks at the Colorado Lawyers Committee Annual Lunch

DATELINE: Washington

BODY:

 US Department of Justice, The Government of USA has issued the following news
release:

Thank you to Constance Talmage, John Walsh and the Colorado Lawyers Committee
for inviting me here today. It's an honor to speak with you today about the work
of the Civil Rights Division, particularly our work to ensure that policing is
done in accordance with the Constitution and to help local police departments
and the communities they serve build trust where it has eroded.

Eric Garner. Michael Brown. Tamir Rice. John Crawford. Walter Scott. Freddie
Gray.

These names and many others have become familiar to us under tragic
circumstances in recent months. Their deaths and those of other unarmed African
American men and women in encounters with police officers, have provoked
widespread responses across the country and have fueled the Black Lives Matter
movement. In communities of color, in particular, the reaction has been stark
and sobering.

In the seven months I have been at the Civil Rights Division, I have spent a lot
of time with local leaders and community members in cities all across America,
including with numerous mothers who have lost their children in officer-involved
shootings. The pain, anger, frustration--the lack of trust in the police--is
real, and it is profound. Again and again, people have told me that young people
are losing faith in our justice system and view law enforcement as preying on
them rather than protecting their loved ones. They talk about how the police
don't value their rights, or indeed, their lives. They talk about being tired of
being viewed as criminals first, human beings second.

The conversation in these rooms, however, is not about whether to have police or
not but about what kind of policing communities want and deserve.

There is no question that we need police in our communities. Police officers
ensure the safety of our communities by patrolling neighborhoods, defending the
rights of victims and deterring crime. They are our first responders in many
emergency situations.

The overwhelming majority of the women and men who police our streets do their
jobs with honor, pride and distinction. Most of these individuals are driven to
the police academy out of a commitment to public service and a desire to make an
impact in their communities. As the senseless and tragic assassinations of NYPD
Officers Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu this spring, the shooting of two officers
in Ferguson in March and the tragic injuries inflicted on officers in Baltimore
a few weeks ago, remind us, officers do all of this at considerable risk to
themselves.

I am struck everywhere I go by the wide gap in empathy and common language to
discuss these problems. Because in the very same cities and rooms where I speak
with folks in the community, I hear from law enforcement who emphasize their
responsibility to enforce the law and how they are doing the best job they can.
They feel attacked and undervalued. They talk about how the actions of a few bad
actors have tarnished the whole profession. They talk about the fact that
department budgets have been slashed over the last several years, resulting in
drastic cuts for community policing and neighborhood patrols. They talk about
how they are constantly making split second decisions and people don't account
for the thousands of times situations don't escalate and how the daily stress of
their jobs take a toll.

But there is one certain commonality in all rooms I am in. And that is that
everyone agrees that we are confronting grave challenges when it comes to the
erosion of trust between police and the communities they serve throughout the
United States. The level of mistrust and resentment is unsettling. Some,
including NYPD Commissioner William Bratton, call it a "crisis in American
policing."

The consequences of distrust between law enforcement and the communities they
serve can be devastating. Where people perceive the criminal justice system to
be arbitrary, biased and unfair, they are less likely to cooperate with law
enforcement, making us all less safe. The distrust and alienation experienced in
some communities can build into a powder keg of resentment, ready to be ignited
by a single tragic incident. We have seen this over and over--in Watts in 1965,
in Los Angeles in 1992 and most recently, in Ferguson in 2014.

It's worth asking, first, how did we get here? And second, what are we going to
do about it?

Let's start with the first question and consider the source of the mistrust.
Mistrust can't be explained away as the kneejerk reaction of the ill-informed or
the hyperbolic. It's in part the product of historical awareness about the role
that police have played in enforcing and perpetuating slavery, the Black Codes,
lynchings and Jim Crow segregation. As FBI Director James Comey noted, "At many
points in American history, law enforcement enforced the status quo, a status
quo that was often brutally unfair to disfavored groups."

It is also the product of lived experience, of negative interactions that
individuals -- or their family members, friends, or neighbors -- have had with
law enforcement. Something as quietly humiliating as being mistreated during a
traffic stop, or being followed in a retail store. These stories can circulate
through a neighborhood -- or these days, across the nation via the web and
social media -- and they can build up over time into a painful narrative that
divides community members and police.

The lack of trust also undeniably results from our criminal justice policies
over the last few decades, and the concentrated impact they have had on
communities of color and people living in poverty. Law enforcement practices
such as the stopping and frisking of young black men based on stereotypes.
Sentencing policies that result in mass incarceration, particularly of people of
color. And the devastating consequences that convictions have had on
individuals' ability to find work, secure stable housing and reintegrate as full
members of society. These are deliberate policy choices that we made over the
last several decades. We bear the responsibility to confront their consequences.

The Civil Rights Division's investigation and recently released report on the
Ferguson Police Department speaks to all of what I have been talking about.

In Ferguson, we found a community where unlawful police practices have not only
severely undermined the public trust and made local residents less safe - but
created an intensely charged atmosphere where people feel under siege by those
charged to serve and protect them.

We determined that the FPD engages in a pattern or practice of conduct that
violates the United States Constitution and federal law. Specifically, we found
that Ferguson PD routinely:

Conducts stops without reasonable suspicion and arrests without probable cause,
in violation of the Fourth Amendment;

Uses unreasonable force in violation of the Fourth Amendment;

Unlawfully interferes with First Amendment rights, including the right to record
and to protest police activity;

Impermissibly discriminates against African Americans in violation of the 14th
Amendment and federal statutory law; and

Violates due process and equal protection in the operation of its Municipal
Court.

We found that this unconstitutional conduct stems from the interaction of two
dynamics: Ferguson's undue focus on revenue generation through policing and
pervasive racial bias in the police department and court system.

These dynamics fostered unconstitutional practices at nearly every level of
Ferguson's law enforcement system. One example: During the summer of 2012, a
Ferguson officer detained a 32-year-old African American man who had just
finished playing basketball at a park. The officer approached while the man was
sitting in his car, cooling off. The car's windows appeared to be more heavily
tinted than Ferguson's code allowed, so the officer may have had grounds to
question him. But, with no apparent justification, the officer proceeded to
escalate the situation, accusing the man of being a pedophile. He prohibited the
man from using his cell phone and ordered him out of his car for a pat-down
search, even though he had no reason to suspect that the man was armed. And when
the man objected - citing his constitutional rights - the police officer drew
his gun, pointed it at the man's head and arrested him on eight different
counts. The arrest caused the man to lose his job.

We observed that even minor code violations can sometimes result in multiple
arrests, jail time and payments that exceed the cost of the original ticket many
times over.

For example, in 2007, one woman received two parking tickets that - together -
totaled $152. To date, she has paid $550 in fines and fees to the city of
Ferguson. She's been arrested twice for having unpaid tickets and she has spent
six days in jail. Yet she still - inexplicably - owes Ferguson $541. Her story
is only one of dozens of similar accounts that our investigation uncovered.

By exposing the harm that the Ferguson court system causes, our findings report
contributes to a growing understanding of a significant problem in our criminal
justice system: the economic exploitation of the poor. The use of modern-day
debtors' prisons, the outsourcing of supervision to private probation companies,
the imposition of fees on defendants to avail themselves of court-appointed
attorneys and the right to a jury trial--these are dangerous trends that should
concern us all.

In Ferguson, we also found evidence of unlawful discrimination. African
Americans make up 67% of the population, but from 2012 to 2014, they
constituted:

85% of the people subject to a vehicle stop;

90% of people who received a citation; and

93% of people arrested.

And discretionary police actions were overwhelmingly concentrated on the black
population. To take just one example, 95% of "manner of walking in roadway"
charges--that's jaywalking--were levied against African Americans.

We found racial disparities in virtually every available metric. From 2012 to
2014, African Americans were more than twice as likely as white drivers to be
searched during vehicle stops, but 26% less likely to be found in possession of
contraband. In 88% of cases in which FPD documented the use of force, force was
used against African Americans. In all cases in which canines were used against
subjects for whom racial information is available, the subject was African
American.

The evidence of racial bias comes not only from statistics, but also from
remarks made by police, city and court officials. Some of you may be aware of
the emails we discovered during our investigation. The emails were
incontrovertible evidence of a culture that tolerated and perhaps even
celebrated racial bias.

These findings reveal that the public trust in Ferguson law enforcement and its
criminal justice system, especially among African Americans, was damaged long
before August 2014. When there is this level of broad community distrust, public
safety suffers and the job of delivering police services is rendered more
difficult and more dangerous.

Although we do not know what we will uncover in future investigations - and will
never prejudge any outcome - in the weeks ahead, we pledge to bring the same
rigor, the same fairness and the same impartiality to Baltimore, where the
Division has launched a civil investigation into the Baltimore Police
Department.

Wherever this investigation may lead, our goal is to work with the community,
public officials and law enforcement to help build a stronger, better Baltimore.
To restore trust where it has been badly eroded. To promote healing - and
address problems that are common to so many great cities across America.

In many ways, Ferguson is not an anomaly. Through our work around the country,
we know there are similar police and court practices in many places. I also know
of several police chiefs around the country that assigned the report as required
reading for their officers. We are already seeing the force multiplying effect
of the report. In the days subsequent to the issuance of our report, cities
around the country are beginning to re-examine their policing and municipal
court practices, though we know there is much more work to do.

I said there were two questions--what the sources of mistrust are and what we
are going to do about it. The second question is hard but we have an
unprecedented opportunity now to address fundamental problems in the way
communities across the country interact with police and with the criminal
justice system more generally.

While the Civil Rights Division and others in this room and beyond have been
working on policing issues for many years, the nation is paying attention
because communities are demanding it. The reality is we tend to confront
systemic problems only when forced to by seemingly extraordinary events.
Journalists now are doing impressive investigative reporting on excessive force,
racial profiling and police-community relations. Universities are doing
important research and analysis of these problems. And families are talking
about them at the dinner table.

Importantly, the focus on policing issues is happening in a broader conversation
about the need to reform our criminal justice system. There is no question, and
I speak from personal experience, that 15 years ago, criminal justice reform was
a lonely endeavor. Few on the Left or the Right were willing to champion its
cause. Today, there is a widespread, even bipartisan, recognition that our
criminal justice system needs an overhaul, that it should not be the go to
answer for social problems and that mass incarceration has damaged this country
in countless ways. Law enforcement leaders themselves talk about how they have
become first responders for a whole host of social problems, including
homelessness, mental illness, drug dependency, school discipline. And in too
many places, the only response we have made available to them is arrest and
incarceration as opposed to evidence-based, alternative interventions. There is
real reform taking place on broader criminal justice issues right now.

For these reasons, we should be optimistic about this moment. The public is
engaged and there is an opportunity for real progress.

What is the work ahead? At the Civil Rights Division, we have redoubled our
efforts to ensure that policing is done in accordance with the Constitution and
to help local police departments and the communities they serve build trust
where it has eroded.

We can and do prosecute individual police officers for intentional misconduct.
In fact, we have prosecuted nearly 400 law enforcement officers over just the
last six years for constitutional violations.

Criminal prosecution, however, is only one tool, and a limited one at that. We
also engage in systemic reform of police departments, like in Ferguson. Since
the start of the administration, the Division has opened 22 investigations into
police departments, including most recently the Baltimore City Police
Department. We also are currently enforcing 16 agreements with law enforcement
agencies, including consent decrees in New Orleans, Puerto Rico, Seattle,
Portland (Oregon), Detroit, the Virgin Islands, East Haven (Connecticut), Warren
(Ohio), Albuquerque and Los Angeles. The department currently has nine open
investigations. In the majority of these investigations the Division has issued
findings or technical assistance letters.

The division is often invited into communities with the support of elected
officials, law enforcement, police unions and communities. For example, two
weeks ago, Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake invited the division to
conduct a review of the Baltimore Police Department. In response to the Mayor's
request, Gene Ryan, president of the Baltimore City Fraternal Order of Police
Lodge No. 3, released a statement, saying the union intends to "fully cooperate
with any investigation that has the potential to correct departmental
deficiencies and improve the morale of our members . . . As the labor union that
represents the nearly 3,000 active duty members of the agency, we agree with
(the) mayor on her invitation to the Department of Justice and welcome their
investigation fully as we, too, have issues with many of the current policies
and procedures of the department."

Working together with police officers and community members, we are helping to
change the way police services are delivered, to reduce the use of unnecessary
force and to combat the influence of racial and ethnic bias in police decision
making. We call the last five years of our work in this area "Police Reform 2.0"
because we learned a lot from the first 15 years of enforcement and we have
incorporated lessons learned from that first decade and a half into our more
recent efforts. "Police Reform 2.0" entails exhaustive engagement with the
community through individual interviews and town hall meetings. We meet with
local officials and civil rights leaders. We learn from law enforcement leaders.
And we spend a lot of time speaking with line officers and with police unions.
Too often, they tell us that they lack adequate support, training, policy
guidance, supervision and even equipment to keep them safe and allow them to
engage in constitutional policing that keeps them and the public safe.

Even after we announce our findings, we continue intensive engagement with all
of the various stakeholders, including community leaders, line officers and
police unions to help shape the remedies that we negotiate at arm's length with
city officials. In Ferguson, we have met with several community groups and held
an open community forum to learn how area residents wanted to see their police
department and court system change. Several weeks ago, our attorneys facilitated
small group discussions, standing with an oversized notepad with marker in hand,
taking down the groups' ideas. In our view, this is how reform starts. The
stakeholders must feel investment in the remedies laid out in our agreements for
them to be successful and sustainable.

Through this inclusive approach to reform, we have identified certain elements
that are absolutely required to build trust and police legitimacy where they
have eroded. For example, police commanders must create opportunities for line
officers to have positive interactions, outside of the enforcement context, with
individuals they may encounter as victims, witnesses, or subjects. This is a
fundamental component of community policing. Departments must also commit to
transparency, because the more communities know about police activity, the more
operations can reflect community values and priorities. Structured community
engagement is vital - there are a host of models for that and I know you will be
having a panel about civilian oversight. We need better research and data. There
is a lot we don't know that we should, so thoughtful data collection and
analysis is a priority.

There must be fair, consistent and robust internal and external systems of
accountability so that police departments can course correct when problems are
identified. Improper bias -- both explicit and implicit bias -- must be
identified and corrected. Critically, officers must be given the specialized
training to do their jobs consistent with community values and the professional
support to cope with stress and trauma they encounter on the job. They need
training to ensure de-escalation with the mentally ill and others in crisis, as
well as to ensure respectful interactions with LGBTI, immigrants with language
barriers and other vulnerable populations. And procedural justice matters.
Research shows that being treated fairly and respectfully matters more than the
ultimate result of a person's interaction with police.

We build these concepts into all of our consent decrees.

Over the past three years, the division has successfully concluded the
implementation of three consent decrees, as well as a memorandum of agreement.
Most recently, on May 11, 2015, the division and the U.S. Attorney's Office
announced that the Missoula, Montana, Police Department had fully implemented
the requirements of its agreement with the department to improve the its
response to reports of sexual assault. The Missoula Police Department's
successful implementation of the agreement in just two years illustrates the
power of government, police and community leaders working together to create
change that makes law enforcement and communities safer and stronger.

The Civil Rights Division is also trying to address problems in policing from
every angle. For example, our Educational Opportunities Section is working to
disrupt the school-to-prison pipeline by intervening where school discipline
practices are overly punitive and disproportionately enforced against students
of color. Our Employment Litigation Section has brought suits around the country
to end discrimination in police hiring. And our Federal Coordination and
Compliance Section is working to ensure that police and court services are
available to those with limited English proficiency. For example, attorneys in
FCS have worked with the U.S. Attorney's Office here in Colorado to secure a
voluntary settlement agreement with the Supreme Court of Colorado to expand
language assistance in court proceedings and programs. As a result of this case,
limited English proficient persons throughout the state are entitled to
interpreter or other language assistance so that they are able to participate
meaningfully in all court matters.

The department, and indeed the President, are committed to these issues, as
well. The President yesterday highlighted several initiatives designed to
rebuild trust between police departments and the communities they serve. He
received the final report from his landmark White House Task Force on 21st
Century Policing. He highlighted an open data project where technologists,
police associations, and community organizations will use data and technology to
reduce use of force and increase transparency and he highlighted the recently
created body worn camera toolkit. And he announced the launch of the law
enforcement equipment review of federal programs that support acquisitions of
equipment by state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies. In March, former
Attorney General Holder announced the six pilot cities for the new National
Initiative for Building Community Trust and Justice, an innovative program
designed to enhance procedural justice, reduce bias and support reconciliation
between communities and law enforcement. Attorney General Lynch is dedicated to
continuing the department's commitment to these issues. Today she is in
Cincinnati launching a national tour promoting community policing and
$163million in grant money available to advance the recommendations of the White
House Task Force on 21st Century Policing.

On the local level, U.S. Attorney's Offices--including yours--have been meeting
with law enforcement officers to promote community policing and anti-bias
initiatives. Here in Colorado, U.S. Attorney John Walsh has emphasized the need
for outreach to refugee communities as well as the importance of outreach to
communities to prevent gang violence.

Importantly, we know that our reform work must go beyond the mechanics of good
policing. We as a society must address the inequality and unfairness that
pervade the larger criminal justice system. Often, an encounter with police is
only the first contact in a process that involves prosecutors, defense
attorneys, courts, correctional institutions and community supervision.
Individuals experience these as facets of a unitary system, not as individual
institutions. We cannot merely focus on reforming police tactics without
focusing on transforming broader criminal justice laws and priorities.

That's why the Department of Justice has expanded its efforts in these other
areas in recent years. Through the Smart on Crime Initiative, former Attorney
General Holder instructed prosecutors to exercise their discretion to avoid
charging low-level drug offenders with mandatory minimum sentences, resulting in
the first drop in the federal prison population in 32 years, with no resulting
increase in crime. U.S. Attorneys like John Walsh are at the forefront of the
Department's Smart on Crime Initiative.

Along with the Access to Justice Initiative, the Civil Rights Division has
advocated for increased resources for state public defense systems and for
reform of local courts and jails that imprison individuals who are too poor to
afford their fines. And we have brought a record number of suits to address
conditions in America's jails and prisons, including the use of solitary
confinement on juveniles and those with mental illness. Only by addressing the
criminal justice system as a whole will be build the lasting trust between
police and the communities that most need their services.

So that's a small window into what we're doing in the policing and criminal
justice areas. Ultimately, change requires commitment and work at the local
level - through persistent and authentic engagement between law enforcement and
the communities they serve. That is one of the reasons that we work so closely
with U.S. Attorneys around the country and here in Denver. The U.S. Attorneys
provide essential expertise and knowledge to the Division as we address similar
issues in sometimes very different communities. John Walsh and his staff are
crucial partners to the Civil Rights Division in this work.

I would be remiss if I did not also tell you that John Walsh and his staff are
crucial partners for the Civil Rights Division in civil rights matters beyond
policing and criminal justice. John's staff has long collaborated with the
division on a range of civil rights matters, most notably enforcement of the
Americans with Disabilities Act.

Before I leave, let me be clear about something: We can accomplish the sweeping
reform I have discussed. In Portland, Oregon, for example, two and a half years
after we identified an institutional pattern of excessive force against people
with mental illness, police officers are being retrained, accountability
measures implemented and the incidence of using force has dropped dramatically.
And right next door in East Haven, Connecticut, residents are seeing
transformative change in their police department just two years after the entry
of a consent decree with the Justice Department. There is reason to be
optimistic and believe that we can achieve reform that will keep individuals,
communities and police safe and ensure that communities have fair, impartial and
constitutional policing.

There is undoubtedly much work to be done but law enforcement and communities
alike feel the urgency right now. The commitment of the Civil Rights Division,
U.S. Attorneys and the Justice Department is part of this work, as is commitment
by attorneys and local bar associations. Criminal justice reform at legislatures
and city councils is part of this work. Strong law enforcement leadership
throughout the country is part of this work. And the hard, authentic dialogue in
communities all over the country with law enforcement is part of the work.

Beyond the federal government and the legal community, there are concrete roles
for people committed to improving police-community relations, enabling racial
reconciliation and promoting justice. It may seem trite but it is powerful when
local communities and law enforcement engage directly and constructively with
each other, when local leaders have relationships with police chiefs, when we
can understand each others' perspectives, each others' lives. This is hard,
inglorious work, but it's essential. And there's a role here for anyone who
wants a safer, fairer, more equal society.

There is no problem too intractable or impossible for people committed to
justice. Justice requires hope and hard, persistent work. We cannot sit idly by
and hope that the public attention these issues are receiving will diminish,
because they won't, or at least not for long. And so I thank you for your work
and for your commitment to justice. Thank you.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

PUB-SUBJECT: National

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2015


                              42 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                                US Official News

                              May 19, 2015 Tuesday

LENGTH: 4764  words

HEADLINE: Arizona: Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta
Delivers Remarks at the Colorado Lawyers Committee Annual Lunch

DATELINE: Phoenix

BODY:

 Department of Justice has issued the following news release:

Thank you to Constance Talmage, John Walsh and the Colorado Lawyers Committee
for inviting me here today.  It's an honor to speak with you today about the
work of the Civil Rights Division, particularly our work to ensure that policing
is done in accordance with the Constitution and to help local police departments
and the communities they serve build trust where it has eroded.

Eric Garner.  Michael Brown.  Tamir Rice.  John Crawford.  Walter Scott. Freddie
Gray.

These names and many others have become familiar to us under tragic
circumstances in recent months.  Their deaths and those of other unarmed African
American men and women in encounters with police officers, have provoked
widespread responses across the country and have fueled the Black Lives Matter
movement.  In communities of color, in particular, the reaction has been stark
and sobering.

In the seven months I have been at the Civil Rights Division, I have spent a lot
of time with local leaders and community members in cities all across America,
including with numerous mothers who have lost their children in officer-involved
shootings.  The pain, anger, frustration--the lack of trust in the police--is
real, and it is profound.  Again and again, people have told me that young
people are losing faith in our justice system and view law enforcement as
preying on them rather than protecting their loved ones.  They talk about how
the police don't value their rights, or indeed, their lives.  They talk about
being tired of being viewed as criminals first, human beings second.

The conversation in these rooms, however, is not about whether to have police or
not but about what kind of policing communities want and deserve.

There is no question that we need police in our communities.  Police officers
ensure the safety of our communities by patrolling neighborhoods, defending the
rights of victims and deterring crime.  They are our first responders in many
emergency situations.

The overwhelming majority of the women and men who police our streets do their
jobs with honor, pride and distinction.  Most of these individuals are driven to
the police academy out of a commitment to public service and a desire to make an
impact in their communities.  As the senseless and tragic assassinations of NYPD
Officers Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu this spring, the shooting of two officers
in Ferguson in March and the tragic injuries inflicted on officers in Baltimore
a few weeks ago, remind us, officers do all of this at considerable risk to
themselves.

I am struck everywhere I go by the wide gap in empathy and common language to
discuss these problems.  Because in the very same cities and rooms where I speak
with folks in the community, I hear from law enforcement who emphasize their
responsibility to enforce the law and how they are doing the best job they can.
They feel attacked and undervalued.  They talk about how the actions of a few
bad actors have tarnished the whole profession.  They talk about the fact that
department budgets have been slashed over the last several years, resulting in
drastic cuts for community policing and neighborhood patrols.  They talk about
how they are constantly making split second decisions and people don't account
for the thousands of times situations don't escalate and how the daily stress of
their jobs take a toll.

But there is one certain commonality in all rooms I am in.  And that is that
everyone agrees that we are confronting grave challenges when it comes to the
erosion of trust between police and the communities they serve throughout the
United States.  The level of mistrust and resentment is unsettling.  Some,
including NYPD Commissioner William Bratton, call it a "crisis in American
policing."

The consequences of distrust between law enforcement and the communities they
serve can be devastating.  Where people perceive the criminal justice system to
be arbitrary, biased and unfair, they are less likely to cooperate with law
enforcement, making us all less safe.  The distrust and alienation experienced
in some communities can build into a powder keg of resentment, ready to be
ignited by a single tragic incident.  We have seen this over and over--in Watts
in 1965, in Los Angeles in 1992 and most recently, in Ferguson in 2014.

It's worth asking, first, how did we get here?  And second, what are we going to
do about it?

Let's start with the first question and consider the source of the mistrust.
Mistrust can't be explained away as the kneejerk reaction of the ill-informed or
the hyperbolic.  It's in part the product of historical awareness about the role
that police have played in enforcing and perpetuating slavery, the Black Codes,
lynchings and Jim Crow segregation.  As FBI Director James Comey noted, "At many
points in American history, law enforcement enforced the status quo, a status
quo that was often brutally unfair to disfavored groups."

It is also the product of lived experience, of negative interactions that
individuals -- or their family members, friends, or neighbors -- have had with
law enforcement.  Something as quietly humiliating as being mistreated during a
traffic stop, or being followed in a retail store.  These stories can circulate
through a neighborhood -- or these days, across the nation via the web and
social media -- and they can build up over time into a painful narrative that
divides community members and police.

The lack of trust also undeniably results from our criminal justice policies
over the last few decades, and the concentrated impact they have had on
communities of color and people living in poverty.  Law enforcement practices
such as the stopping and frisking of young black men based on stereotypes.
Sentencing policies that result in mass incarceration, particularly of people of
color.  And the devastating consequences that convictions have had on
individuals' ability to find work, secure stable housing and reintegrate as full
members of society.  These are deliberate policy choices that we made over the
last several decades.  We bear the responsibility to confront their
consequences.

The Civil Rights Division's investigation and recently released report on the
Ferguson Police Department speaks to all of what I have been talking about.

In Ferguson, we found a community where unlawful police practices have not only
severely undermined the public trust and made local residents less safe - but
created an intensely charged atmosphere where people feel under siege by those
charged to serve and protect them.

We determined that the FPD engages in a pattern or practice of conduct that
violates the United States Constitution and federal law.  Specifically, we found
that Ferguson PD routinely:

Conducts stops without reasonable suspicion and arrests without probable cause,
in violation of the Fourth Amendment;

Uses unreasonable force in violation of the Fourth Amendment;

Unlawfully interferes with First Amendment rights, including the right to record
and to protest police activity;

Impermissibly discriminates against African Americans in violation of the 14th
Amendment and federal statutory law; and

Violates due process and equal protection in the operation of its Municipal
Court.

We found that this unconstitutional conduct stems from the interaction of two
dynamics:  Ferguson's undue focus on revenue generation through policing and
pervasive racial bias in the police department and court system.

These dynamics fostered unconstitutional practices at nearly every level of
Ferguson's law enforcement system.  One example: During the summer of 2012, a
Ferguson officer detained a 32-year-old African American man who had just
finished playing basketball at a park.  The officer approached while the man was
sitting in his car, cooling off.  The car's windows appeared to be more heavily
tinted than Ferguson's code allowed, so the officer may have had grounds to
question him.  But, with no apparent justification, the officer proceeded to
escalate the situation, accusing the man of being a pedophile.  He prohibited
the man from using his cell phone and ordered him out of his car for a pat-down
search, even though he had no reason to suspect that the man was armed.  And
when the man objected - citing his constitutional rights - the police officer
drew his gun, pointed it at the man's head and arrested him on eight different
counts.  The arrest caused the man to lose his job.

We observed that even minor code violations can sometimes result in multiple
arrests, jail time and payments that exceed the cost of the original ticket many
times over.

For example, in 2007, one woman received two parking tickets that - together -
totaled $152.  To date, she has paid $550 in fines and fees to the city of
Ferguson.  She's been arrested twice for having unpaid tickets and she has spent
six days in jail.  Yet she still - inexplicably - owes Ferguson $541.  Her story
is only one of dozens of similar accounts that our investigation uncovered.

By exposing the harm that the Ferguson court system causes, our findings report
contributes to a growing understanding of a significant problem in our criminal
justice system: the economic exploitation of the poor.  The use of modern-day
debtors' prisons, the outsourcing of supervision to private probation companies,
the imposition of fees on defendants to avail themselves of court-appointed
attorneys and the right to a jury trial--these are dangerous trends that should
concern us all.

In Ferguson, we also found evidence of unlawful discrimination.  African
Americans make up 67% of the population, but from 2012 to 2014, they
constituted:

85% of the people subject to a vehicle stop;

90% of people who received a citation; and

93% of people arrested.

And discretionary police actions were overwhelmingly concentrated on the black
population.  To take just one example, 95% of "manner of walking in roadway"
charges--that's jaywalking--were levied against African Americans.

We found racial disparities in virtually every available metric.  From 2012 to
2014, African Americans were more than twice as likely as white drivers to be
searched during vehicle stops, but 26% less likely to be found in possession of
contraband.  In 88% of cases in which FPD documented the use of force, force was
used against African Americans.  In all cases in which canines were used against
subjects for whom racial information is available, the subject was African
American.

The evidence of racial bias comes not only from statistics, but also from
remarks made by police, city and court officials.  Some of you may be aware of
the emails we discovered during our investigation.  The emails were
incontrovertible evidence of a culture that tolerated and perhaps even
celebrated racial bias.

These findings reveal that the public trust in Ferguson law enforcement and its
criminal justice system, especially among African Americans, was damaged long
before August 2014.  When there is this level of broad community distrust,
public safety suffers and the job of delivering police services is rendered more
difficult and more dangerous.

Although we do not know what we will uncover in future investigations - and will
never prejudge any outcome - in the weeks ahead, we pledge to bring the same
rigor, the same fairness and the same impartiality to Baltimore, where the
Division has launched a civil investigation into the Baltimore Police
Department.

Wherever this investigation may lead, our goal is to work with the community,
public officials and law enforcement to help build a stronger, better Baltimore.
To restore trust where it has been badly eroded.  To promote healing - and
address problems that are common to so many great cities across America.

In many ways, Ferguson is not an anomaly.  Through our work around the country,
we know there are similar police and court practices in many places.  I also
know of several police chiefs around the country that assigned the report as
required reading for their officers.  We are already seeing the force
multiplying effect of the report.  In the days subsequent to the issuance of our
report, cities around the country are beginning to re-examine their policing and
municipal court practices, though we know there is much more work to do.

I said there were two questions--what the sources of mistrust are and what we
are going to do about it.  The second question is hard but we have an
unprecedented opportunity now to address fundamental problems in the way
communities across the country interact with police and with the criminal
justice system more generally.

While the Civil Rights Division and others in this room and beyond have been
working on policing issues for many years, the nation is paying attention
because communities are demanding it.  The reality is we tend to confront
systemic problems only when forced to by seemingly extraordinary events.
Journalists now are doing impressive investigative reporting on excessive force,
racial profiling and police-community relations.  Universities are doing
important research and analysis of these problems.  And families are talking
about them at the dinner table.

Importantly, the focus on policing issues is happening in a broader conversation
about the need to reform our criminal justice system.  There is no question, and
I speak from personal experience, that 15 years ago, criminal justice reform was
a lonely endeavor.  Few on the Left or the Right were willing to champion its
cause.  Today, there is a widespread, even bipartisan, recognition that our
criminal justice system needs an overhaul, that it should not be the go to
answer for social problems and that mass incarceration has damaged this country
in countless ways.  Law enforcement leaders themselves talk about how they have
become first responders for a whole host of social problems, including
homelessness, mental illness, drug dependency, school discipline.  And in too
many places, the only response we have made available to them is arrest and
incarceration as opposed to evidence-based, alternative interventions.  There is
real reform taking place on broader criminal justice issues right now.

For these reasons, we should be optimistic about this moment.  The public is
engaged and there is an opportunity for real progress.

What is the work ahead?  At the Civil Rights Division, we have redoubled our
efforts to ensure that policing is done in accordance with the Constitution and
to help local police departments and the communities they serve build trust
where it has eroded.

We can and do prosecute individual police officers for intentional misconduct.
In fact, we have prosecuted nearly 400 law enforcement officers over just the
last six years for constitutional violations.

Criminal prosecution, however, is only one tool, and a limited one at that.  We
also engage in systemic reform of police departments, like in Ferguson.  Since
the start of the administration, the Division has opened 22 investigations into
police departments, including most recently the Baltimore City Police
Department.  We also are currently enforcing 16 agreements with law enforcement
agencies, including consent decrees in New Orleans, Puerto Rico, Seattle,
Portland (Oregon), Detroit, the Virgin Islands, East Haven (Connecticut), Warren
(Ohio), Albuquerque and Los Angeles.  The department currently has nine open
investigations. In the majority of these investigations the Division has issued
findings or technical assistance letters.

The division is often invited into communities with the support of elected
officials, law enforcement, police unions and communities.  For example, two
weeks ago, Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake invited the division to
conduct a review of the Baltimore Police Department.  In response to the Mayor's
request, Gene Ryan, president of the Baltimore City Fraternal Order of Police
Lodge No. 3, released a statement, saying the union intends to "fully cooperate
with any investigation that has the potential to correct departmental
deficiencies and improve the morale of our members . . . As the labor union that
represents the nearly 3,000 active duty members of the agency, we agree with
(the) mayor on her invitation to the Department of Justice and welcome their
investigation fully as we, too, have issues with many of the current policies
and procedures of the department."

Working together with police officers and community members, we are helping to
change the way police services are delivered, to reduce the use of unnecessary
force and to combat the influence of racial and ethnic bias in police decision
making.  We call the last five years of our work in this area "Police Reform
2.0" because we learned a lot from the first 15 years of enforcement and we have
incorporated lessons learned from that first decade and a half into our more
recent efforts.  "Police Reform 2.0" entails exhaustive engagement with the
community through individual interviews and town hall meetings.  We meet with
local officials and civil rights leaders.  We learn from law enforcement
leaders.  And we spend a lot of time speaking with line officers and with police
unions.  Too often, they tell us that they lack adequate support, training,
policy guidance, supervision and even equipment to keep them safe and allow them
to engage in constitutional policing that keeps them and the public safe.

Even after we announce our findings, we continue intensive engagement with all
of the various stakeholders, including community leaders, line officers and
police unions to help shape the remedies that we negotiate at arm's length with
city officials.  In Ferguson, we have met with several community groups and held
an open community forum to learn how area residents wanted to see their police
department and court system change.  Several weeks ago, our attorneys
facilitated small group discussions, standing with an oversized notepad with
marker in hand, taking down the groups' ideas.  In our view, this is how reform
starts.  The stakeholders must feel investment in the remedies laid out in our
agreements for them to be successful and sustainable.

Through this inclusive approach to reform, we have identified certain elements
that are absolutely required to build trust and police legitimacy where they
have eroded.  For example, police commanders must create opportunities for line
officers to have positive interactions, outside of the enforcement context, with
individuals they may encounter as victims, witnesses, or subjects.  This is a
fundamental component of community policing.  Departments must also commit to
transparency, because the more communities know about police activity, the more
operations can reflect community values and priorities.  Structured community
engagement is vital - there are a host of models for that and I know you will be
having a panel about civilian oversight.  We need better research and data.
There is a lot we don't know that we should, so thoughtful data collection and
analysis is a priority.

There must be fair, consistent and robust internal and external systems of
accountability so that police departments can course correct when problems are
identified.  Improper bias -- both explicit and implicit bias -- must be
identified and corrected.  Critically, officers must be given the specialized
training to do their jobs consistent with community values and the professional
support to cope with stress and trauma they encounter on the job.  They need
training to ensure de-escalation with the mentally ill and others in crisis, as
well as to ensure respectful interactions with LGBTI, immigrants with language
barriers and other vulnerable populations.  And procedural justice matters.
Research shows that being treated fairly and respectfully matters more than the
ultimate result of a person's interaction with police.

We build these concepts into all of our consent decrees.

Over the past three years, the division has successfully concluded the
implementation of three consent decrees, as well as a memorandum of agreement.
Most recently, on May 11, 2015, the division and the U.S. Attorney's Office
announced that the Missoula, Montana, Police Department had fully implemented
the requirements of its agreement with the department to improve the its
response to reports of sexual assault.  The Missoula Police Department's
successful implementation of the agreement in just two years illustrates the
power of government, police and community leaders working together to create
change that makes law enforcement and communities safer and stronger.

The Civil Rights Division is also trying to address problems in policing from
every angle.  For example, our Educational Opportunities Section is working to
disrupt the school-to-prison pipeline by intervening where school discipline
practices are overly punitive and disproportionately enforced against students
of color.  Our Employment Litigation Section has brought suits around the
country to end discrimination in police hiring.  And our Federal Coordination
and Compliance Section is working to ensure that police and court services are
available to those with limited English proficiency.  For example, attorneys in
FCS have worked with the U.S. Attorney's Office here in Colorado to secure a
voluntary settlement agreement with the Supreme Court of Colorado to expand
language assistance in court proceedings and programs.  As a result of this
case, limited English proficient persons throughout the state are entitled to
interpreter or other language assistance so that they are able to participate
meaningfully in all court matters.

The department, and indeed the President, are committed to these issues, as
well. The President yesterday highlighted several initiatives designed to
rebuild trust between police departments and the communities they serve. He
received the final report from his landmark White House Task Force on 21st
Century Policing. He highlighted an open data project where technologists,
police associations, and community organizations will use data and technology to
reduce use of force and increase transparency and he highlighted the recently
created body worn camera toolkit. And he announced the launch of the law
enforcement equipment review of federal programs that support acquisitions of
equipment by state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies.  In March,
former Attorney General Holder announced the six pilot cities for the new
National Initiative for Building Community Trust and Justice, an innovative
program designed to enhance procedural justice, reduce bias and support
reconciliation between communities and law enforcement.  Attorney General Lynch
is dedicated to continuing the department's commitment to these issues. Today
she is in Cincinnati launching a national tour promoting community policing and
$163million in grant money available to advance the recommendations of the White
House Task Force on 21st Century Policing.

On the local level, U.S. Attorney's Offices--including yours--have been meeting
with law enforcement officers to promote community policing and anti-bias
initiatives.  Here in Colorado, U.S. Attorney John Walsh has emphasized the need
for outreach to refugee communities as well as the importance of outreach to
communities to prevent gang violence.

Importantly, we know that our reform work must go beyond the mechanics of good
policing.  We as a society must address the inequality and unfairness that
pervade the larger criminal justice system.  Often, an encounter with police is
only the first contact in a process that involves prosecutors, defense
attorneys, courts, correctional institutions and community supervision.
Individuals experience these as facets of a unitary system, not as individual
institutions.  We cannot merely focus on reforming police tactics without
focusing on transforming broader criminal justice laws and priorities.

That's why the Department of Justice has expanded its efforts in these other
areas in recent years.  Through the Smart on Crime Initiative, former Attorney
General Holder instructed prosecutors to exercise their discretion to avoid
charging low-level drug offenders with mandatory minimum sentences, resulting in
the first drop in the federal prison population in 32 years, with no resulting
increase in crime.  U.S. Attorneys like John Walsh are at the forefront of the
Department's Smart on Crime Initiative.

Along with the Access to Justice Initiative, the Civil Rights Division has
advocated for increased resources for state public defense systems and for
reform of local courts and jails that imprison individuals who are too poor to
afford their fines.  And we have brought a record number of suits to address
conditions in America's jails and prisons, including the use of solitary
confinement on juveniles and those with mental illness.  Only by addressing the
criminal justice system as a whole will be build the lasting trust between
police and the communities that most need their services.

So that's a small window into what we're doing in the policing and criminal
justice areas.  Ultimately, change requires commitment and work at the local
level - through persistent and authentic engagement between law enforcement and
the communities they serve.  That is one of the reasons that we work so closely
with U.S. Attorneys around the country and here in Denver.  The U.S. Attorneys
provide essential expertise and knowledge to the Division as we address similar
issues in sometimes very different communities.  John Walsh and his staff are
crucial partners to the Civil Rights Division in this work.

I would be remiss if I did not also tell you that John Walsh and his staff are
crucial partners for the Civil Rights Division in civil rights matters beyond
policing and criminal justice.  John's staff has long collaborated with the
division on a range of civil rights matters, most notably enforcement of the
Americans with Disabilities Act.

Before I leave, let me be clear about something:  We can accomplish the sweeping
reform I have discussed.  In Portland, Oregon, for example, two and a half years
after we identified an institutional pattern of excessive force against people
with mental illness, police officers are being retrained, accountability
measures implemented and the incidence of using force has dropped dramatically.
And right next door in East Haven, Connecticut, residents are seeing
transformative change in their police department just two years after the entry
of a consent decree with the Justice Department.  There is reason to be
optimistic and believe that we can achieve reform that will keep individuals,
communities and police safe and ensure that communities have fair, impartial and
constitutional policing.

There is undoubtedly much work to be done but law enforcement and communities
alike feel the urgency right now.   The commitment of the Civil Rights Division,
U.S. Attorneys and the Justice Department is part of this work, as is commitment
by attorneys and local bar associations.  Criminal justice reform at
legislatures and city councils is part of this work.  Strong law enforcement
leadership throughout the country is part of this work.  And the hard, authentic
dialogue in communities all over the country with law enforcement is part of the
work.

Beyond the federal government and the legal community, there are concrete roles
for people committed to improving police-community relations, enabling racial
reconciliation and promoting justice.  It may seem trite but it is powerful when
local communities and law enforcement engage directly and constructively with
each other, when local leaders have relationships with police chiefs, when we
can understand each others' perspectives, each others' lives.  This is hard,
inglorious work, but it's essential.  And there's a role here for anyone who
wants a safer, fairer, more equal society.

There is no problem too intractable or impossible for people committed to
justice.  Justice requires hope and hard, persistent work.  We cannot sit idly
by and hope that the public attention these issues are receiving will diminish,
because they won't, or at least not for long.  And so I thank you for your work
and for your commitment to justice.  Thank you.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

PUB-SUBJECT: National

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2015


                              43 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                                US Official News

                             May 20, 2015 Wednesday

LENGTH: 4719  words

HEADLINE: Washington: Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Vanita Gupta
Delivers Remarks at the Colorado Lawyers Committee Annual Lunch

DATELINE: Washington

BODY:

 US Department of Justice, The Government of USA has issued the following news
release:

Thank you to Constance Talmage, John Walsh and the Colorado Lawyers Committee
for inviting me here today. It's an honor to speak with you today about the work
of the Civil Rights Division, particularly our work to ensure that policing is
done in accordance with the Constitution and to help local police departments
and the communities they serve build trust where it has eroded.

Eric Garner. Michael Brown. Tamir Rice. John Crawford. Walter Scott. Freddie
Gray.

These names and many others have become familiar to us under tragic
circumstances in recent months. Their deaths and those of other unarmed African
American men and women in encounters with police officers, have provoked
widespread responses across the country and have fueled the Black Lives Matter
movement. In communities of color, in particular, the reaction has been stark
and sobering.

In the seven months I have been at the Civil Rights Division, I have spent a lot
of time with local leaders and community members in cities all across America,
including with numerous mothers who have lost their children in officer-involved
shootings. The pain, anger, frustration--the lack of trust in the police--is
real, and it is profound. Again and again, people have told me that young people
are losing faith in our justice system and view law enforcement as preying on
them rather than protecting their loved ones. They talk about how the police
don't value their rights, or indeed, their lives. They talk about being tired of
being viewed as criminals first, human beings second.

The conversation in these rooms, however, is not about whether to have police or
not but about what kind of policing communities want and deserve.

There is no question that we need police in our communities. Police officers
ensure the safety of our communities by patrolling neighborhoods, defending the
rights of victims and deterring crime. They are our first responders in many
emergency situations.

The overwhelming majority of the women and men who police our streets do their
jobs with honor, pride and distinction. Most of these individuals are driven to
the police academy out of a commitment to public service and a desire to make an
impact in their communities. As the senseless and tragic assassinations of NYPD
Officers Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu this spring, the shooting of two officers
in Ferguson in March and the tragic injuries inflicted on officers in Baltimore
a few weeks ago, remind us, officers do all of this at considerable risk to
themselves.

I am struck everywhere I go by the wide gap in empathy and common language to
discuss these problems. Because in the very same cities and rooms where I speak
with folks in the community, I hear from law enforcement who emphasize their
responsibility to enforce the law and how they are doing the best job they can.
They feel attacked and undervalued. They talk about how the actions of a few bad
actors have tarnished the whole profession. They talk about the fact that
department budgets have been slashed over the last several years, resulting in
drastic cuts for community policing and neighborhood patrols. They talk about
how they are constantly making split second decisions and people don't account
for the thousands of times situations don't escalate and how the daily stress of
their jobs take a toll.

But there is one certain commonality in all rooms I am in. And that is that
everyone agrees that we are confronting grave challenges when it comes to the
erosion of trust between police and the communities they serve throughout the
United States. The level of mistrust and resentment is unsettling. Some,
including NYPD Commissioner William Bratton, call it a "crisis in American
policing."

The consequences of distrust between law enforcement and the communities they
serve can be devastating. Where people perceive the criminal justice system to
be arbitrary, biased and unfair, they are less likely to cooperate with law
enforcement, making us all less safe. The distrust and alienation experienced in
some communities can build into a powder keg of resentment, ready to be ignited
by a single tragic incident. We have seen this over and over--in Watts in 1965,
in Los Angeles in 1992 and most recently, in Ferguson in 2014.

It's worth asking, first, how did we get here? And second, what are we going to
do about it?

Let's start with the first question and consider the source of the mistrust.
Mistrust can't be explained away as the kneejerk reaction of the ill-informed or
the hyperbolic. It's in part the product of historical awareness about the role
that police have played in enforcing and perpetuating slavery, the Black Codes,
lynchings and Jim Crow segregation. As FBI Director James Comey noted, "At many
points in American history, law enforcement enforced the status quo, a status
quo that was often brutally unfair to disfavored groups."

It is also the product of lived experience, of negative interactions that
individuals -- or their family members, friends, or neighbors -- have had with
law enforcement. Something as quietly humiliating as being mistreated during a
traffic stop, or being followed in a retail store. These stories can circulate
through a neighborhood -- or these days, across the nation via the web and
social media -- and they can build up over time into a painful narrative that
divides community members and police.

The lack of trust also undeniably results from our criminal justice policies
over the last few decades, and the concentrated impact they have had on
communities of color and people living in poverty. Law enforcement practices
such as the stopping and frisking of young black men based on stereotypes.
Sentencing policies that result in mass incarceration, particularly of people of
color. And the devastating consequences that convictions have had on
individuals' ability to find work, secure stable housing and reintegrate as full
members of society. These are deliberate policy choices that we made over the
last several decades. We bear the responsibility to confront their consequences.

The Civil Rights Division's investigation and recently released report on the
Ferguson Police Department speaks to all of what I have been talking about.

In Ferguson, we found a community where unlawful police practices have not only
severely undermined the public trust and made local residents less safe - but
created an intensely charged atmosphere where people feel under siege by those
charged to serve and protect them.

We determined that the FPD engages in a pattern or practice of conduct that
violates the United States Constitution and federal law. Specifically, we found
that Ferguson PD routinely:

Conducts stops without reasonable suspicion and arrests without probable cause,
in violation of the Fourth Amendment;

Uses unreasonable force in violation of the Fourth Amendment;

Unlawfully interferes with First Amendment rights, including the right to record
and to protest police activity;

Impermissibly discriminates against African Americans in violation of the 14th
Amendment and federal statutory law; and

Violates due process and equal protection in the operation of its Municipal
Court.

We found that this unconstitutional conduct stems from the interaction of two
dynamics: Ferguson's undue focus on revenue generation through policing and
pervasive racial bias in the police department and court system.

These dynamics fostered unconstitutional practices at nearly every level of
Ferguson's law enforcement system. One example: During the summer of 2012, a
Ferguson officer detained a 32-year-old African American man who had just
finished playing basketball at a park. The officer approached while the man was
sitting in his car, cooling off. The car's windows appeared to be more heavily
tinted than Ferguson's code allowed, so the officer may have had grounds to
question him. But, with no apparent justification, the officer proceeded to
escalate the situation, accusing the man of being a pedophile. He prohibited the
man from using his cell phone and ordered him out of his car for a pat-down
search, even though he had no reason to suspect that the man was armed. And when
the man objected - citing his constitutional rights - the police officer drew
his gun, pointed it at the man's head and arrested him on eight different
counts. The arrest caused the man to lose his job.

We observed that even minor code violations can sometimes result in multiple
arrests, jail time and payments that exceed the cost of the original ticket many
times over.

For example, in 2007, one woman received two parking tickets that - together -
totaled $152. To date, she has paid $550 in fines and fees to the city of
Ferguson. She's been arrested twice for having unpaid tickets and she has spent
six days in jail. Yet she still - inexplicably - owes Ferguson $541. Her story
is only one of dozens of similar accounts that our investigation uncovered.

By exposing the harm that the Ferguson court system causes, our findings report
contributes to a growing understanding of a significant problem in our criminal
justice system: the economic exploitation of the poor. The use of modern-day
debtors' prisons, the outsourcing of supervision to private probation companies,
the imposition of fees on defendants to avail themselves of court-appointed
attorneys and the right to a jury trial--these are dangerous trends that should
concern us all.

In Ferguson, we also found evidence of unlawful discrimination. African
Americans make up 67% of the population, but from 2012 to 2014, they
constituted:

85% of the people subject to a vehicle stop;

90% of people who received a citation; and

93% of people arrested.

And discretionary police actions were overwhelmingly concentrated on the black
population. To take just one example, 95% of "manner of walking in roadway"
charges--that's jaywalking--were levied against African Americans.

We found racial disparities in virtually every available metric. From 2012 to
2014, African Americans were more than twice as likely as white drivers to be
searched during vehicle stops, but 26% less likely to be found in possession of
contraband. In 88% of cases in which FPD documented the use of force, force was
used against African Americans. In all cases in which canines were used against
subjects for whom racial information is available, the subject was African
American.

The evidence of racial bias comes not only from statistics, but also from
remarks made by police, city and court officials. Some of you may be aware of
the emails we discovered during our investigation. The emails were
incontrovertible evidence of a culture that tolerated and perhaps even
celebrated racial bias.

These findings reveal that the public trust in Ferguson law enforcement and its
criminal justice system, especially among African Americans, was damaged long
before August 2014. When there is this level of broad community distrust, public
safety suffers and the job of delivering police services is rendered more
difficult and more dangerous.

Although we do not know what we will uncover in future investigations - and will
never prejudge any outcome - in the weeks ahead, we pledge to bring the same
rigor, the same fairness and the same impartiality to Baltimore, where the
Division has launched a civil investigation into the Baltimore Police
Department.

Wherever this investigation may lead, our goal is to work with the community,
public officials and law enforcement to help build a stronger, better Baltimore.
To restore trust where it has been badly eroded. To promote healing - and
address problems that are common to so many great cities across America.

In many ways, Ferguson is not an anomaly. Through our work around the country,
we know there are similar police and court practices in many places. I also know
of several police chiefs around the country that assigned the report as required
reading for their officers. We are already seeing the force multiplying effect
of the report. In the days subsequent to the issuance of our report, cities
around the country are beginning to re-examine their policing and municipal
court practices, though we know there is much more work to do.

I said there were two questions--what the sources of mistrust are and what we
are going to do about it. The second question is hard but we have an
unprecedented opportunity now to address fundamental problems in the way
communities across the country interact with police and with the criminal
justice system more generally.

While the Civil Rights Division and others in this room and beyond have been
working on policing issues for many years, the nation is paying attention
because communities are demanding it. The reality is we tend to confront
systemic problems only when forced to by seemingly extraordinary events.
Journalists now are doing impressive investigative reporting on excessive force,
racial profiling and police-community relations. Universities are doing
important research and analysis of these problems. And families are talking
about them at the dinner table.

Importantly, the focus on policing issues is happening in a broader conversation
about the need to reform our criminal justice system. There is no question, and
I speak from personal experience, that 15 years ago, criminal justice reform was
a lonely endeavor. Few on the Left or the Right were willing to champion its
cause. Today, there is a widespread, even bipartisan, recognition that our
criminal justice system needs an overhaul, that it should not be the go to
answer for social problems and that mass incarceration has damaged this country
in countless ways. Law enforcement leaders themselves talk about how they have
become first responders for a whole host of social problems, including
homelessness, mental illness, drug dependency, school discipline. And in too
many places, the only response we have made available to them is arrest and
incarceration as opposed to evidence-based, alternative interventions. There is
real reform taking place on broader criminal justice issues right now.

For these reasons, we should be optimistic about this moment. The public is
engaged and there is an opportunity for real progress.

What is the work ahead? At the Civil Rights Division, we have redoubled our
efforts to ensure that policing is done in accordance with the Constitution and
to help local police departments and the communities they serve build trust
where it has eroded.

We can and do prosecute individual police officers for intentional misconduct.
In fact, we have prosecuted nearly 400 law enforcement officers over just the
last six years for constitutional violations.

Criminal prosecution, however, is only one tool, and a limited one at that. We
also engage in systemic reform of police departments, like in Ferguson. Since
the start of the administration, the Division has opened 22 investigations into
police departments, including most recently the Baltimore City Police
Department. We also are currently enforcing 16 agreements with law enforcement
agencies, including consent decrees in New Orleans, Puerto Rico, Seattle,
Portland (Oregon), Detroit, the Virgin Islands, East Haven (Connecticut), Warren
(Ohio), Albuquerque and Los Angeles. The department currently has nine open
investigations. In the majority of these investigations the Division has issued
findings or technical assistance letters.

The division is often invited into communities with the support of elected
officials, law enforcement, police unions and communities. For example, two
weeks ago, Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake invited the division to
conduct a review of the Baltimore Police Department. In response to the Mayor's
request, Gene Ryan, president of the Baltimore City Fraternal Order of Police
Lodge No. 3, released a statement, saying the union intends to "fully cooperate
with any investigation that has the potential to correct departmental
deficiencies and improve the morale of our members . . . As the labor union that
represents the nearly 3,000 active duty members of the agency, we agree with
(the) mayor on her invitation to the Department of Justice and welcome their
investigation fully as we, too, have issues with many of the current policies
and procedures of the department."

Working together with police officers and community members, we are helping to
change the way police services are delivered, to reduce the use of unnecessary
force and to combat the influence of racial and ethnic bias in police decision
making. We call the last five years of our work in this area "Police Reform 2.0"
because we learned a lot from the first 15 years of enforcement and we have
incorporated lessons learned from that first decade and a half into our more
recent efforts. "Police Reform 2.0" entails exhaustive engagement with the
community through individual interviews and town hall meetings. We meet with
local officials and civil rights leaders. We learn from law enforcement leaders.
And we spend a lot of time speaking with line officers and with police unions.
Too often, they tell us that they lack adequate support, training, policy
guidance, supervision and even equipment to keep them safe and allow them to
engage in constitutional policing that keeps them and the public safe.

Even after we announce our findings, we continue intensive engagement with all
of the various stakeholders, including community leaders, line officers and
police unions to help shape the remedies that we negotiate at arm's length with
city officials. In Ferguson, we have met with several community groups and held
an open community forum to learn how area residents wanted to see their police
department and court system change. Several weeks ago, our attorneys facilitated
small group discussions, standing with an oversized notepad with marker in hand,
taking down the groups' ideas. In our view, this is how reform starts. The
stakeholders must feel investment in the remedies laid out in our agreements for
them to be successful and sustainable.

Through this inclusive approach to reform, we have identified certain elements
that are absolutely required to build trust and police legitimacy where they
have eroded. For example, police commanders must create opportunities for line
officers to have positive interactions, outside of the enforcement context, with
individuals they may encounter as victims, witnesses, or subjects. This is a
fundamental component of community policing. Departments must also commit to
transparency, because the more communities know about police activity, the more
operations can reflect community values and priorities. Structured community
engagement is vital - there are a host of models for that and I know you will be
having a panel about civilian oversight. We need better research and data. There
is a lot we don't know that we should, so thoughtful data collection and
analysis is a priority.

There must be fair, consistent and robust internal and external systems of
accountability so that police departments can course correct when problems are
identified. Improper bias -- both explicit and implicit bias -- must be
identified and corrected. Critically, officers must be given the specialized
training to do their jobs consistent with community values and the professional
support to cope with stress and trauma they encounter on the job. They need
training to ensure de-escalation with the mentally ill and others in crisis, as
well as to ensure respectful interactions with LGBTI, immigrants with language
barriers and other vulnerable populations. And procedural justice matters.
Research shows that being treated fairly and respectfully matters more than the
ultimate result of a person's interaction with police.

We build these concepts into all of our consent decrees.

Over the past three years, the division has successfully concluded the
implementation of three consent decrees, as well as a memorandum of agreement.
Most recently, on May 11, 2015, the division and the U.S. Attorney's Office
announced that the Missoula, Montana, Police Department had fully implemented
the requirements of its agreement with the department to improve the its
response to reports of sexual assault. The Missoula Police Department's
successful implementation of the agreement in just two years illustrates the
power of government, police and community leaders working together to create
change that makes law enforcement and communities safer and stronger.

The Civil Rights Division is also trying to address problems in policing from
every angle. For example, our Educational Opportunities Section is working to
disrupt the school-to-prison pipeline by intervening where school discipline
practices are overly punitive and disproportionately enforced against students
of color. Our Employment Litigation Section has brought suits around the country
to end discrimination in police hiring. And our Federal Coordination and
Compliance Section is working to ensure that police and court services are
available to those with limited English proficiency. For example, attorneys in
FCS have worked with the U.S. Attorney's Office here in Colorado to secure a
voluntary settlement agreement with the Supreme Court of Colorado to expand
language assistance in court proceedings and programs. As a result of this case,
limited English proficient persons throughout the state are entitled to
interpreter or other language assistance so that they are able to participate
meaningfully in all court matters.

The department, and indeed the President, are committed to these issues, as
well. The President yesterday highlighted several initiatives designed to
rebuild trust between police departments and the communities they serve. He
received the final report from his landmark White House Task Force on 21st
Century Policing. He highlighted an open data project where technologists,
police associations, and community organizations will use data and technology to
reduce use of force and increase transparency and he highlighted the recently
created body worn camera toolkit. And he announced the launch of the law
enforcement equipment review of federal programs that support acquisitions of
equipment by state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies. In March, former
Attorney General Holder announced the six pilot cities for the new National
Initiative for Building Community Trust and Justice, an innovative program
designed to enhance procedural justice, reduce bias and support reconciliation
between communities and law enforcement. Attorney General Lynch is dedicated to
continuing the department's commitment to these issues. Today she is in
Cincinnati launching a national tour promoting community policing and
$163million in grant money available to advance the recommendations of the White
House Task Force on 21st Century Policing.

On the local level, U.S. Attorney's Offices--including yours--have been meeting
with law enforcement officers to promote community policing and anti-bias
initiatives. Here in Colorado, U.S. Attorney John Walsh has emphasized the need
for outreach to refugee communities as well as the importance of outreach to
communities to prevent gang violence.

Importantly, we know that our reform work must go beyond the mechanics of good
policing. We as a society must address the inequality and unfairness that
pervade the larger criminal justice system. Often, an encounter with police is
only the first contact in a process that involves prosecutors, defense
attorneys, courts, correctional institutions and community supervision.
Individuals experience these as facets of a unitary system, not as individual
institutions. We cannot merely focus on reforming police tactics without
focusing on transforming broader criminal justice laws and priorities.

That's why the Department of Justice has expanded its efforts in these other
areas in recent years. Through the Smart on Crime Initiative, former Attorney
General Holder instructed prosecutors to exercise their discretion to avoid
charging low-level drug offenders with mandatory minimum sentences, resulting in
the first drop in the federal prison population in 32 years, with no resulting
increase in crime. U.S. Attorneys like John Walsh are at the forefront of the
Department's Smart on Crime Initiative.

Along with the Access to Justice Initiative, the Civil Rights Division has
advocated for increased resources for state public defense systems and for
reform of local courts and jails that imprison individuals who are too poor to
afford their fines. And we have brought a record number of suits to address
conditions in America's jails and prisons, including the use of solitary
confinement on juveniles and those with mental illness. Only by addressing the
criminal justice system as a whole will be build the lasting trust between
police and the communities that most need their services.

So that's a small window into what we're doing in the policing and criminal
justice areas. Ultimately, change requires commitment and work at the local
level - through persistent and authentic engagement between law enforcement and
the communities they serve. That is one of the reasons that we work so closely
with U.S. Attorneys around the country and here in Denver. The U.S. Attorneys
provide essential expertise and knowledge to the Division as we address similar
issues in sometimes very different communities. John Walsh and his staff are
crucial partners to the Civil Rights Division in this work.

I would be remiss if I did not also tell you that John Walsh and his staff are
crucial partners for the Civil Rights Division in civil rights matters beyond
policing and criminal justice. John's staff has long collaborated with the
division on a range of civil rights matters, most notably enforcement of the
Americans with Disabilities Act.

Before I leave, let me be clear about something: We can accomplish the sweeping
reform I have discussed. In Portland, Oregon, for example, two and a half years
after we identified an institutional pattern of excessive force against people
with mental illness, police officers are being retrained, accountability
measures implemented and the incidence of using force has dropped dramatically.
And right next door in East Haven, Connecticut, residents are seeing
transformative change in their police department just two years after the entry
of a consent decree with the Justice Department. There is reason to be
optimistic and believe that we can achieve reform that will keep individuals,
communities and police safe and ensure that communities have fair, impartial and
constitutional policing.

There is undoubtedly much work to be done but law enforcement and communities
alike feel the urgency right now. The commitment of the Civil Rights Division,
U.S. Attorneys and the Justice Department is part of this work, as is commitment
by attorneys and local bar associations. Criminal justice reform at legislatures
and city councils is part of this work. Strong law enforcement leadership
throughout the country is part of this work. And the hard, authentic dialogue in
communities all over the country with law enforcement is part of the work.

Beyond the federal government and the legal community, there are concrete roles
for people committed to improving police-community relations, enabling racial
reconciliation and promoting justice. It may seem trite but it is powerful when
local communities and law enforcement engage directly and constructively with
each other, when local leaders have relationships with police chiefs, when we
can understand each others' perspectives, each others' lives. This is hard,
inglorious work, but it's essential. And there's a role here for anyone who
wants a safer, fairer, more equal society.

There is no problem too intractable or impossible for people committed to
justice. Justice requires hope and hard, persistent work. We cannot sit idly by
and hope that the public attention these issues are receiving will diminish,
because they won't, or at least not for long. And so I thank you for your work
and for your commitment to justice. Thank you.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

PUB-SUBJECT: National

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015


                              44 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                               May 3, 2015 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1824 words

HEADLINE: IMPROVING POLICE-COMMUNITY RELATIONS;
A BOND WITH THE COMMUNITY;
A police chief's slow and steady approach has yielded results

BYLINE: Lee Romney

DATELINE:  RICHMOND, CALIF.

BODY:

Residents packed the City Council chambers here in 2005, hoisting signs
emblazoned with photos of slain loved ones. Eight men had been shot dead in
gang-related violence in a two-week span.

Many residents had long had contempt for the Richmond Police Department, with
its decades-old reputation of racism and ruthlessness. The community rarely
cooperated with officers, making even minor crimes hard to solve.

New to town, City Manager Bill Lindsay believed that change would come only with
an overhaul of police practices. He turned to an unlikely reformer: Chris
Magnus, the white, gay police chief of Fargo, N.D.

A decade later, this minority-majority city has recorded its lowest homicide
rate in 33 years. Officer-involved shootings are now rare: There have been two
since Magnus came on board, whereas outside police agencies killed five men
inside city limits during the same period.

Community mistrust has gradually given way to collaboration, thanks to deepening
bonds between officers and the neighborhoods they serve.

Now, as angry residents riot over use of force in Baltimore -- and Ferguson,
Mo., before that -- state and federal leaders are tapping Magnus, 54, to share
his approach.

Magnus acknowledges that the gains have involved some luck. But he and outside
experts attribute them largely to a hard-won culture change.

Residents have also stepped up.

"We changed some of the ideas the police had about us, and we changed some of
the ideas we had about them," said Bennie Lois-Clark Singleton, 80, who
participates in weekly street walks to coax at-risk youths to reject violence.

--

Positive interaction

The video went viral. Two officers working the annual Juneteenth festival were
showing off their moves to the line-dance hit "the Wobble." Onlookers hooted
encouragement.

The resident who captured the scene at the celebration of African American
history later called it "awesome" to see how the officers "were interacting with
the community." But it wasn't always so.

A shipbuilding hub during World War II, Richmond struggled when jobs vanished.
The urban core is still depressed in this city of 107,571 -- more than 80% of
whom are nonwhite -- and a dozen gangs remain active.

In 1982, minorities' relations with police boiled over when tactics of officers
known as "the Cowboys" came into wider light. Separate fatal police shootings of
two black men in their beds led to a $3-million judgment, then the largest civil
penalty in the country for police abuse.

A judge noted "significant" evidence of an informal policy that "encouraged and
authorized violence and brutality by Richmond police officers against black
residents."

As demographics shifted, problems persisted. In 2002, officers clearing a street
on Cinco de Mayo roughed up and pepper-sprayed Andres Soto and his sons. In a
holding cell, Soto found more than a dozen other Latino men swept up by police.
The community protested. The group won a settlement.

"That was the crack in the mirror," said Soto, 59, an environmental activist.

Two interim chiefs followed. Then, in December 2005, Lindsay hired Magnus, who
had climbed the ranks in Lansing, Mich., before heading the force in Fargo.

"He just completely opened up the department," Soto said.

--

New relationships

When Magnus arrived, he quickly realized he had to craft a command team
committed to the vision of "more human relationships," he said.

There were challenges. Soon after he took the post, seven high-ranking African
American officers sued, accusing Magnus of making racist comments and bypassing
them for promotion. The case dragged on for years. After a three-month civil
trial in 2012, the officers lost on all 72 counts.

All the while, the chief was pressing reforms.

He disbanded roving street teams that had focused on arrests, replacing them
with neighborhood-based policing. Officers attend neighborhood meetings and give
out their cellphone numbers. The department installed monitored street cameras
and a gunfire detection system and employed sophisticated software to better
predict and prevent crime.

On a recent shift, Officer Chris Llamas edged his patrol car over the railroad
tracks. Members of a Norteno gang had entered Sureno territory to leave their
tag, which Surenos had crossed out and replaced with their own. It could easily
escalate into shooting, the 13-year veteran concluded.

Code enforcement workers now fall under Magnus' command, leading to quicker
action on graffiti, drug houses and other blight. The tags would "be gone by
tomorrow," Llamas said after making a call. Soon, he and his partner were
rousting public drinkers in a parking lot. A new merchants association had asked
for help with the loitering, and received it.

Enlisting community members as partners has also yielded benefits.

Richard Boyd, an organizer with Contra Costa Interfaith Supporting Community
Organization, recalled that when he moved to Richmond, shortly before Magnus
did, young men loitered in his neighborhood, flashing guns and shooting dice.

"There was no genuine policing, there was no genuine street cleaning, road
repair services," Boyd recalled. "They wouldn't respond to any quality-of-life
issues."

That soon changed. Though still troubled by violence, the Iron Triangle
neighborhood has calmed noticeably, and families with children play in a
radically revamped Nevin Park.

"We were able ... to call [the beat officers] directly and say, 'There are eight
guys out front gambling,' " Boyd recalled. "And those officers would respond
because they could feel our pain."

Through Boyd's interfaith group, clergy lead the weekly street walks and
participate in an anti-violence program known as Ceasefire, attending "call-ins"
where police are also present to persuade active members to give up gang life.

"I wouldn't call it trust, but they just know each other," said Tamisha Walker,
32, a one-time offender who runs a reentry program for former inmates. "The
officers know the guys on the street, they know their families, they know that
they have kids, if they've been to school."

But work remains. "It is individual officers and not the department as a whole
that is respected," said Walker, who encourages offenders through Ceasefire to
give up violence. "We still have officers who we need to be careful about."

Toody Maher concurs. In collaboration with police, her Pogo Park nonprofit
transformed a blighted lot into a vibrant park that employs residents as
monitors and won a national award.

"Sometimes the events on the ground don't correspond with the vision," she said,
"but thank God we have the vision."

--

Extra training

The police supervisors gathered for a routine meeting -- to pick apart every
incident of force over a two-month period. Each tackle of a fleeing suspect,
arm-twist and kick was up for scrutiny, though none had prompted complaints.

A woman outside an apartment where a kidnapping involving a gun was unfolding
had refused three orders to move. When an officer sought to arrest her, a
physical struggle ensued. The incident, the group concurred, had stoked emotions
and proved a poor use of resources.

"It's a good big-picture training point," offered Officer Steve Andretich, the
use-of-force trainer.

"Maybe [the officer] could have said to the other witness, 'Hey, this is why we
want you to move. Can you ask her?' "

Weapons training has also expanded. Shooting-range sessions are held monthly to
enhance precision. Quarterly, officers run through role-playing scenarios to
help with split-second decisions on when to shoot and when to instead use
Tasers, pepper spray or verbal persuasion, said Lt. Louie Tirona, the firearms
instructor.

They are also taught to stop when a suspect complies, and Tirona said he has
found that rounds fired have "decreased noticeably," contributing to a higher
survival rate of suspects. In four of the seven nonfatal police shootings under
Magnus' watch, officers fired only one round.

Laurie Robinson, a professor of criminology at George Mason University who
co-chaired the Presidential Task Force on 21st Century Policing -- convened in
the wake of the Ferguson unrest -- called Richmond's monthly use-of-force
reviews "highly unusual." She said role-playing training, although more common
in larger departments, puts Richmond on the "leading edge of good practice."

Magnus was one of "the most impressive" of the more than 120 people invited to
testify before the task force, Robinson said, because he has forged
collaborations with "not just the residents but churches and schools and social
services and businesses."

But, she said, it is the combination of reforms -- better training, community
policing and new technologies -- that truly set Richmond apart and could prove a
model for other departments large and small.

A national expert on recognizing implicit racial and gender bias conducted
department-wide training in February.

Weeks earlier, officers filled a conference room for a meditation training
geared to help them remain relaxed, alert and focused.

Sgt. Robert Gray, a 25-year veteran who proposed the training, said it would
have been laughed at a decade ago.

The idea of old-school cops, he said, "was to get the bad guys, get them to
comply, and if that takes physical coercion, so be it. That's not the way to be,
especially when you serve the community. And that's what we are -- servants."

Last September, after the city had gone seven years without a fatality, a
Richmond officer shot and killed Pedie Perez, 24, contending that Perez grabbed
for his gun. Perez's family disputes that version and has sued. An investigation
is ongoing. Body cameras have since arrived.

Magnus knew community relations were at risk. He informed the public that it
could attend the coroner's inquest; posted updates on social media; and was
present at Perez's funeral at the family's invitation.

Last winter, the chief joined community members demonstrating in the wake of the
Ferguson unrest and held a "Black Lives Matter" sign.

The Richmond Police Officers Assn. bristled, accusing him of illegally
participating in political activities while in uniform. Magnus countered that he
was merely acknowledging that "all lives matter" and showing respect "for the
very real concerns of our minority communities."

Boyd did a double-take when Magnus reached for the sign but said he was not
surprised.

He had first met Magnus at a march to the scene of a slaying that, it turned
out, had occurred in Magnus' neighborhood.

There was this "blond-haired white guy going on about how he had heard the shots
from his house," Boyd said.

"Sometimes I think he doesn't know he's the chief. He thinks he's one of us."

--

lee.romney@latimes.com

Twitter: @leeromney

--

()

107,571

Richmond population

40%

Latino

27%

African American

14%

Asian

17%

White (non-Latino)

40

Homicides in 2005

11

Homicides in 2014

526

Robberies in 2005

375

Robberies in 2014

7,208

Total crimes 2005

5,115

Total crimes 2014

27%

Reduction in total crimes since 2005

Sources: U.S. Census Bureau, Richmond Police Department

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DURING USE-OF-FORCE training, Sgt. John Lopez, left, Officer
Andrew Barbara, center, and Det. Steve Decious discuss a hostage scenario in
which they would deal with an armed, mentally unstable suspect.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Marcus Yam Los Angeles Times PHOTO: RICHMOND, a minority-majority
city, has recorded its lowest homicide rate in 33 years, and officer-involved
shootings are now rare.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Marcus Yam Los Angeles Times PHOTO: CHRIS
MAGNUS, center, has been chief for a decade. Now other agencies are hoping to
learn from his vision of "more human relationships" between police and the
people they protect.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Marcus Yam Los Angeles Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Infobox

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (90%); SHOOTINGS
(90%); BONDS (90%); GANGS (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES
(86%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEN (78%); HOMICIDE
(78%); CRIME RATES (77%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); RACE
& RACISM (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); SHIPBUILDING (70%);
FESTIVALS (68%); HISTORY (65%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); VIOLENT CRIME
STATISTICS (54%); WORLD WAR II (50%); VIRAL VIDEOS (50%)

PUB-SUBJECT: MAGNUS, CHRIS; RICHMOND (CA); RICHMOND POLICE DEPARTMENT; POLICE
CHIEFS; POLICE COMMUNITY RELATIONS

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); FARGO, ND, USA (57%)
CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2015


                              45 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                               May 3, 2015 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1824 words

HEADLINE: IMPROVING POLICE-COMMUNITY RELATIONS;
A BOND WITH THE COMMUNITY;
A police chief's slow and steady approach has yielded results

BYLINE: Lee Romney

DATELINE:  RICHMOND, CALIF.

BODY:

Residents packed the City Council chambers here in 2005, hoisting signs
emblazoned with photos of slain loved ones. Eight men had been shot dead in
gang-related violence in a two-week span.

Many residents had long had contempt for the Richmond Police Department, with
its decades-old reputation of racism and ruthlessness. The community rarely
cooperated with officers, making even minor crimes hard to solve.

New to town, City Manager Bill Lindsay believed that change would come only with
an overhaul of police practices. He turned to an unlikely reformer: Chris
Magnus, the white, gay police chief of Fargo, N.D.

A decade later, this minority-majority city has recorded its lowest homicide
rate in 33 years. Officer-involved shootings are now rare: There have been two
since Magnus came on board, whereas outside police agencies killed five men
inside city limits during the same period.

Community mistrust has gradually given way to collaboration, thanks to deepening
bonds between officers and the neighborhoods they serve.

Now, as angry residents riot over use of force in Baltimore -- and Ferguson,
Mo., before that -- state and federal leaders are tapping Magnus, 54, to share
his approach.

Magnus acknowledges that the gains have involved some luck. But he and outside
experts attribute them largely to a hard-won culture change.

Residents have also stepped up.

"We changed some of the ideas the police had about us, and we changed some of
the ideas we had about them," said Bennie Lois-Clark Singleton, 80, who
participates in weekly street walks to coax at-risk youths to reject violence.

--

Positive interaction

The video went viral. Two officers working the annual Juneteenth festival were
showing off their moves to the line-dance hit "the Wobble." Onlookers hooted
encouragement.

The resident who captured the scene at the celebration of African American
history later called it "awesome" to see how the officers "were interacting with
the community." But it wasn't always so.

A shipbuilding hub during World War II, Richmond struggled when jobs vanished.
The urban core is still depressed in this city of 107,571 -- more than 80% of
whom are nonwhite -- and a dozen gangs remain active.

In 1982, minorities' relations with police boiled over when tactics of officers
known as "the Cowboys" came into wider light. Separate fatal police shootings of
two black men in their beds led to a $3-million judgment, then the largest civil
penalty in the country for police abuse.

A judge noted "significant" evidence of an informal policy that "encouraged and
authorized violence and brutality by Richmond police officers against black
residents."

As demographics shifted, problems persisted. In 2002, officers clearing a street
on Cinco de Mayo roughed up and pepper-sprayed Andres Soto and his sons. In a
holding cell, Soto found more than a dozen other Latino men swept up by police.
The community protested. The group won a settlement.

"That was the crack in the mirror," said Soto, 59, an environmental activist.

Two interim chiefs followed. Then, in December 2005, Lindsay hired Magnus, who
had climbed the ranks in Lansing, Mich., before heading the force in Fargo.

"He just completely opened up the department," Soto said.

--

New relationships

When Magnus arrived, he quickly realized he had to craft a command team
committed to the vision of "more human relationships," he said.

There were challenges. Soon after he took the post, seven high-ranking African
American officers sued, accusing Magnus of making racist comments and bypassing
them for promotion. The case dragged on for years. After a three-month civil
trial in 2012, the officers lost on all 72 counts.

All the while, the chief was pressing reforms.

He disbanded roving street teams that had focused on arrests, replacing them
with neighborhood-based policing. Officers attend neighborhood meetings and give
out their cellphone numbers. The department installed monitored street cameras
and a gunfire detection system and employed sophisticated software to better
predict and prevent crime.

On a recent shift, Officer Chris Llamas edged his patrol car over the railroad
tracks. Members of a Norteno gang had entered Sureno territory to leave their
tag, which Surenos had crossed out and replaced with their own. It could easily
escalate into shooting, the 13-year veteran concluded.

Code enforcement workers now fall under Magnus' command, leading to quicker
action on graffiti, drug houses and other blight. The tags would "be gone by
tomorrow," Llamas said after making a call. Soon, he and his partner were
rousting public drinkers in a parking lot. A new merchants association had asked
for help with the loitering, and received it.

Enlisting community members as partners has also yielded benefits.

Richard Boyd, an organizer with Contra Costa Interfaith Supporting Community
Organization, recalled that when he moved to Richmond, shortly before Magnus
did, young men loitered in his neighborhood, flashing guns and shooting dice.

"There was no genuine policing, there was no genuine street cleaning, road
repair services," Boyd recalled. "They wouldn't respond to any quality-of-life
issues."

That soon changed. Though still troubled by violence, the Iron Triangle
neighborhood has calmed noticeably, and families with children play in a
radically revamped Nevin Park.

"We were able ... to call [the beat officers] directly and say, 'There are eight
guys out front gambling,' " Boyd recalled. "And those officers would respond
because they could feel our pain."

Through Boyd's interfaith group, clergy lead the weekly street walks and
participate in an anti-violence program known as Ceasefire, attending "call-ins"
where police are also present to persuade active members to give up gang life.

"I wouldn't call it trust, but they just know each other," said Tamisha Walker,
32, a one-time offender who runs a reentry program for former inmates. "The
officers know the guys on the street, they know their families, they know that
they have kids, if they've been to school."

But work remains. "It is individual officers and not the department as a whole
that is respected," said Walker, who encourages offenders through Ceasefire to
give up violence. "We still have officers who we need to be careful about."

Toody Maher concurs. In collaboration with police, her Pogo Park nonprofit
transformed a blighted lot into a vibrant park that employs residents as
monitors and won a national award.

"Sometimes the events on the ground don't correspond with the vision," she said,
"but thank God we have the vision."

--

Extra training

The police supervisors gathered for a routine meeting -- to pick apart every
incident of force over a two-month period. Each tackle of a fleeing suspect,
arm-twist and kick was up for scrutiny, though none had prompted complaints.

A woman outside an apartment where a kidnapping involving a gun was unfolding
had refused three orders to move. When an officer sought to arrest her, a
physical struggle ensued. The incident, the group concurred, had stoked emotions
and proved a poor use of resources.

"It's a good big-picture training point," offered Officer Steve Andretich, the
use-of-force trainer.

"Maybe [the officer] could have said to the other witness, 'Hey, this is why we
want you to move. Can you ask her?' "

Weapons training has also expanded. Shooting-range sessions are held monthly to
enhance precision. Quarterly, officers run through role-playing scenarios to
help with split-second decisions on when to shoot and when to instead use
Tasers, pepper spray or verbal persuasion, said Lt. Louie Tirona, the firearms
instructor.

They are also taught to stop when a suspect complies, and Tirona said he has
found that rounds fired have "decreased noticeably," contributing to a higher
survival rate of suspects. In four of the seven nonfatal police shootings under
Magnus' watch, officers fired only one round.

Laurie Robinson, a professor of criminology at George Mason University who
co-chaired the Presidential Task Force on 21st Century Policing -- convened in
the wake of the Ferguson unrest -- called Richmond's monthly use-of-force
reviews "highly unusual." She said role-playing training, although more common
in larger departments, puts Richmond on the "leading edge of good practice."

Magnus was one of "the most impressive" of the more than 120 people invited to
testify before the task force, Robinson said, because he has forged
collaborations with "not just the residents but churches and schools and social
services and businesses."

But, she said, it is the combination of reforms -- better training, community
policing and new technologies -- that truly set Richmond apart and could prove a
model for other departments large and small.

A national expert on recognizing implicit racial and gender bias conducted
department-wide training in February.

Weeks earlier, officers filled a conference room for a meditation training
geared to help them remain relaxed, alert and focused.

Sgt. Robert Gray, a 25-year veteran who proposed the training, said it would
have been laughed at a decade ago.

The idea of old-school cops, he said, "was to get the bad guys, get them to
comply, and if that takes physical coercion, so be it. That's not the way to be,
especially when you serve the community. And that's what we are -- servants."

Last September, after the city had gone seven years without a fatality, a
Richmond officer shot and killed Pedie Perez, 24, contending that Perez grabbed
for his gun. Perez's family disputes that version and has sued. An investigation
is ongoing. Body cameras have since arrived.

Magnus knew community relations were at risk. He informed the public that it
could attend the coroner's inquest; posted updates on social media; and was
present at Perez's funeral at the family's invitation.

Last winter, the chief joined community members demonstrating in the wake of the
Ferguson unrest and held a "Black Lives Matter" sign.

The Richmond Police Officers Assn. bristled, accusing him of illegally
participating in political activities while in uniform. Magnus countered that he
was merely acknowledging that "all lives matter" and showing respect "for the
very real concerns of our minority communities."

Boyd did a double-take when Magnus reached for the sign but said he was not
surprised.

He had first met Magnus at a march to the scene of a slaying that, it turned
out, had occurred in Magnus' neighborhood.

There was this "blond-haired white guy going on about how he had heard the shots
from his house," Boyd said.

"Sometimes I think he doesn't know he's the chief. He thinks he's one of us."

--

lee.romney@latimes.com

Twitter: @leeromney

--

()

107,571

Richmond population

40%

Latino

27%

African American

14%

Asian

17%

White (non-Latino)

40

Homicides in 2005

11

Homicides in 2014

526

Robberies in 2005

375

Robberies in 2014

7,208

Total crimes 2005

5,115

Total crimes 2014

27%

Reduction in total crimes since 2005

Sources: U.S. Census Bureau, Richmond Police Department

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DURING USE-OF-FORCE training, Sgt. John Lopez, left, Officer
Andrew Barbara, center, and Det. Steve Decious discuss a hostage scenario in
which they would deal with an armed, mentally unstable suspect.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Marcus Yam Los Angeles Times PHOTO: RICHMOND, a minority-majority
city, has recorded its lowest homicide rate in 33 years, and officer-involved
shootings are now rare.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Marcus Yam Los Angeles Times PHOTO: CHRIS
MAGNUS, center, has been chief for a decade. Now other agencies are hoping to
learn from his vision of "more human relationships" between police and the
people they protect.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Marcus Yam Los Angeles Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Infobox

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (90%); SHOOTINGS
(90%); BONDS (90%); GANGS (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES
(86%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MEN (78%); HOMICIDE
(78%); CRIME RATES (77%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); RACE
& RACISM (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); SHIPBUILDING (70%);
FESTIVALS (68%); HISTORY (65%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); VIOLENT CRIME
STATISTICS (54%); WORLD WAR II (50%); VIRAL VIDEOS (50%)

PUB-SUBJECT: MAGNUS, CHRIS; RICHMOND (CA); RICHMOND POLICE DEPARTMENT; POLICE
CHIEFS; POLICE COMMUNITY RELATIONS

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); FARGO, ND, USA (57%)
CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015


                              46 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                         Copyright 2015 The Tulsa World
                              All Rights Reserved
                             Tulsa World (Oklahoma)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: VIDEO: Tahlequah police chief on fatal officer-involved shooting:
'They acted decisively in a ... rapidly escalating situation'

BYLINE: SAMANTHA VICENT World Staff Writer

DATELINE: Tulsa, OK

BODY:

View the officer's body camera video here.

VIDEO: Tahlequah police respond to deadly officer-involved shooting

TAHLEQUAH - The Tahlequah Police Department identified a 15-year department
veteran on Tuesday as the officer who fatally shot a 35-year-old man during an
altercation that was captured on another officer's body camera Saturday morning.

Randy Tanner, the agency's range master, remains on administrative leave while
the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation completes an inquiry into the death
of Joshua P. Crittenden, Tahlequah Police Chief Nate King said at a news
conference.

Around 11:50 a.m. Saturday, officers went to a home in the 500 block of South
Mission Avenue in response to a call indicating that two men had at least one
gun in a white pickup that had been reported stolen, King said. The caller
reported that the men had been fighting, he added.

Benjamin Brown, who was at the scene and was arrested on multiple felony
warrants, gave officers a fictitious name of the person who had been in the
pickup with him, King said. Brown's father lives at the home where the shooting
occurred, he said.

Others who were in the home Saturday morning told police no one else was inside,
but the officers looked through the house because they believed the other
suspect - Crittenden - was armed.

The footage provided to reporters was from Officer Bronson McNiel's body camera.
McNiel was riding in a patrol car with Tanner the day of the shooting.

"Come here, partner," one officer can be heard telling one of the men, believed
to be Brown. "Let's get your hands up."

All four officers at the scene were equipped with body cameras, but Tanner -
originally only there in an observer role - did not activate his, King said. He
also said another camera's lens was obscured and that the fourth did not capture
footage until after the shooting occurred.

All Tahlequah police officers have had body cameras since August 2014, King
said, but whether they are required to be turned on depends on the situation.

"A call of this nature, with Officer Tanner as an observing officer, a training
officer, by the time it escalated, his body was in fight or flight," he said.
"I'm not sure if I myself would have remembered to turn that camera on at that
time."

Police reported finding Crittenden when he went through an attic vent on the
home's south end, and they can be heard telling dispatchers he was in the attic
with a weapon. The other occupants of the home "did not follow directions to
remain in place on the back porch, causing the officers further safety
concerns," King said.

One of the officers can be heard saying he was concerned that Crittenden would
jump into the home from a hallway attic access, using a flashlight to show the
area in question.

The shooting can be heard but not seen on the recording, which also did not
capture the altercation between Tanner and Crittenden that led to shots being
fired. Tanner reported drawing his Taser to subdue Crittenden "until he
discovered Crittenden did in fact have a handgun," King said, and that prompted
the officer to draw his gun, instead.

King said Crittenden pointed his gun at Tanner multiple times. Officers can be
heard yelling that Crittenden had jumped out of the attic shortly before the
shooting.

"He jumped. I can't radio. I'm on the wrong channel to tell them," one officer,
identified as Pam Bell, can be heard saying. "He's got a pistol. He's jumped. I
believe he did! ... Shots! Shots!"

At 12:14 p.m., six shots are heard from the home's southeast corner. Eight
seconds later, police are heard saying, "We have a suspect down." An ambulance
arrived about eight minutes later.

Crittenden did not shoot at Tanner, but King said he had "no doubt" that he
would have done so if given the opportunity, adding that Crittenden had been
told "on multiple occasions" to drop his weapon.

OSBI Special Agent Charlie Mackey said investigators found a handgun near
Crittenden after he was shot. King said the camera footage shows that
Crittenden's gun had its safety in the "off" position and that one of the
bullets hit the middle knuckle of Crittenden's right hand - indicating, he said,
that Crittenden was holding his gun in front of him at the time he was shot.

"(Tanner) stated he was in fear of his life and believed using deadly force was
his only option," King said.

Crittenden was transported to a Tulsa hospital, where he died, authorities said.

Brown remains in Cherokee County custody, jail records show.

Tanner was the only officer who fired, King said.

"I feel like they acted decisively in a very dangerous and in a rapidly
escalating situation," King said of his officers. "They made several attempts to
end this situation peaceably, ... and he refused to do so time and time again."

The OSBI will send a report on its findings to the Cherokee County District
Attorney's Office, who will determine whether Tanner's use of deadly force was
justified, Mackey said.

King said Crittenden's family, whom he knew personally, have seen the body
camera video.

Family members of both men told the Tulsa World on Tuesday that they didn't wish
to comment.

"This is a tragedy in Tahlequah, no matter how it plays out, no matter what
happened," King said. "A man lost his life. The officers that were involved in
this (and) I myself, we will never be the same the rest of our lives."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (91%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS
(90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ARREST WARRANTS
(78%); ARRESTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (73%); FELONIES
(73%); ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES
(67%); SHOOTINGS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (72%) OKLAHOMA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015


                              47 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved
                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                            June 10, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Suspect in Edmonton police shooting was focus of hate crimes
investigation

BODY:

EDMONTON * The suspect in a shooting that killed an Edmonton police officer and
wounded another had been the focus of a lengthy hate crimes investigation.

Police Chief Rod Knecht says police had evidence going back to February of last
year.

"The online hatred and bullying of an Edmonton family had become extreme and the
family members were increasingly worried about their personal safety, at which
time the Edmonton Police Service became involved," Knecht said at a Tuesday news
conference

Knecht identified the suspect as Norman Walter Raddatz, 42, who was known to
police, although he did not have an extensive criminal record.

Officers had gone to the man's home in west Edmonton on Monday night to arrest
him on an outstanding warrant for a bylaw offence. There were also going to
serve him with documents ordering him to appear in court for criminal
harassment.

That's when gunfire broke out.

Knecht said eight officers approached the door of the home but did not expect
violence. They knocked and announced themselves as police and, when no one
answered, they started to break in.

Bullets flew through the door and the first officer in line, 38-year-old Sgt.
Jason Harley, was shot once in the lower back as he turned around, said Knecht.
Body armour saved Harley's life.

Const. Daniel Woodall, 35, was also wearing a vest but was hit with bullets
elsewhere on his body and suffered a fatal, "catastrophic wound."

Knecht said the other officers took cover and were pinned down by gunfire for
the next 10 minutes. They came "very, very close to death."

Officers found 53 bullets in the house and garage across the street, said
Knecht, who added the officers didn't fire any rounds.

Investigators believe Raddatz used a large-bore rifle, a powerful gun that
carries big bullets and is often used to hunt big game animals.

Soon after, a fire started in the house and burned it to the ground. Police
found a body in the basement they believe is Raddatz. An autopsy was to be
performed Tuesday.

Knecht said police are not looking for other suspects.

Woodall was recruited to the Edmonton force from Great Britain and had served
with the Greater Manchester Police. He had been an Edmonton officer for eight
years and was assigned to the hate crimes unit.

He leaves behind a wife, Claire, and two young children. Knecht said the
children were sleeping last night and their mother was to break the news to them
Tuesday morning.

On Twitter, she thanked people for the support she has received.

"Your generous outpouring of love for myself and my boys fills my heart. He is
my hero, our boys' hero &; Edmonton's newest hero," she wrote.

Edmonton Mayor Don Iveson choked back tears and struggled to talk to reporters.

"I reflect the sadness that I feel in the community," he said. "But I feel this
most deeply as a father of young children and I'm incredibly sad for them and
for Mrs. Woodall."

But Edmonton is still a safe city, he said. "By and large, good people live here
... we rely on our police to protect us from the few and the worst among us."

Prime Minister Stephen Harper also sent condolences to Woodall's family, friends
and colleagues.

"It is a very difficult reminder that police officers across our country put
their lives on the line every day to serve and protect our communities and keep
us safe," Harper said in a statement.

It is the second death of an Edmonton-area police officer this year. RCMP Const.
David Wynn, 42, died in January at a casino in St. Albert, north of the city,
while trying to track down the driver of a stolen truck. Auxiliary Const. Derek
Bond was seriously injured but survived.

The shooter, Shawn Maxwell Rehn, was out on bail facing 15 charges, including
escaping lawful custody, possession of a prohibited firearm and failure to show
up for a previous bail hearing on the charges. Police found him dead in a home
he had broken into.

The last officer to be killed on the job within Edmonton city limits was Const.
Ezio Faraone, who was gunned down in June 1990 while trying to arrest a suspect
who was fleeing from an armed robbery. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Times &; Transcript
(Moncton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CRIMINAL
OFFENSES (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FIREARMS (89%); FIRES
(78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); CRIMINAL
HARASSMENT (78%); BULLYING (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); FAMILY
(77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); SPORT HUNTING (73%)

PUB-SUBJECT: edmonton,suspect,shooting,killed,police,officer

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (52%) ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015


                              48 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                                 irishmirror.ie

                      June 10, 2015 Wednesday 12:17 PM GMT

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Azelle Rodney shooting: Armed cop 'murdered suspect by firing six
shots into him in seconds';
Two of the bullets were fired into the suspected armed robber's head after his
car was 'hard' stopped in a London street

BYLINE: By Henry Vaughan

BODY:

An armed policeman murdered a man during an operation after firing six shots
into him from close range, a court has heard.

Anthony Long blasted eight shots into a VW Golf carrying a number of suspected
armed robber, six of which hit Azelle Rodney, jurors were told.

Two of the bullets were fired into the top of the victim's head, causing fatal
injuries, the Old Bailey heard.

Police had swarmed the car in a 'hard stop' after believing those inside were
armed with guns and on their way to commit a robbery.

The Old Bailey heard how Long was a Specialist Firearms Officer (SFO), known as
'E7', at the Metropolitan Police's 'SO19' division when he shot and killed Mr
Rodney on 30 April 2005, in Hale Lane, in Mill Hill, North London.

Prosecutor Max Hill, QC, said: "The prosecution say that it was not necessary
for Mr Long to open fire upon the Golf and Azelle Rodney.

"Therefore, we say, Mr Long was not acting lawfully when he opened fire.

"That being so, Mr Long's actions in deliberately killing Azelle Rodney when it
was not necessary to do so, make Mr Long guilty of murder."

The court heard Mr Rodney was sat in the rear passenger seat, behind Wesley
Lovell and Frank Graham, when armed officers swooped.

Police suspected the Golf contained firearms and the men were on their way to
commit an armed robbery, said the prosecutor.

Officers set up surveillance on the car and a specialist firearms team was
deployed in unmarked cars to follow the vehicle.

The prosecutor said: "As the Golf drove along Hale Lane, the order was given by
the officer in charge of the firearms team to carry out what is known as a "hard
stop", during which the Golf was to be forced to a halt and boxed in by the
unmarked police vehicles.

"The hard stop was carried out in Hale Lane, with the result that one of the
police firearms vehicles drew alongside the driver's side of the Golf.

"The front seat passenger in that police firearms car was the defendant Mr Long,
who opened fire and shot and killed Azelle Rodney.

"Mr Long fired eight shots, from short range and in quick succession, all of
which were aimed at Azelle Rodney, though two lodged in the metalwork of the car
door or missed, therefore six of the eight reached him.

"The majority of those shots caused fatal injuries to Azelle Rodney, culminating
in the final two shots which were fired into the top of Azelle Rodney's head."

Mr Hill told jurors they would need to 'consider very carefully' the actions of
Long and the events surrounding the moment he 'pulled the trigger and opened
fire' on the alleged victim.

Long sat in the glass-enclosed dock of the Old Bailey's Court 10 wearing a grey
suit, pale blue shirt and navy blue patterned tie.

Mr Rodney's family members, including mum Susan Alexander sat in the well of the
court as the prosecution opened the case.

Long, whose bail address was given in court as the Police Federation
Headquarters (Room 26), Federation House, Highbury Drive, Leatherhead, Surrey
denies murder.

The trial continues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); FIREARMS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS
(90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ROBBERY (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES
(78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS
(73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015


                              49 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 The Telegraph Journal
                              All Rights Reserved
                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                            June 10, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Edmonton shooting suspect was focus of hate crime investigation

BODY:

EDMONTON * The suspect in a shooting that killed an Edmonton police officer and
wounded another had been the focus of a lengthy hate crimes investigation.

Police Chief Rod Knecht says police had evidence going back to February of last
year.

"The online hatred and bullying of an Edmonton family had become extreme and the
family members were increasingly worried about their personal safety, at which
time the Edmonton Police Service became involved," Knecht said at a Tuesday news
conference

Knecht identified the suspect as Norman Walter Raddatz, 42, who was known to
police, although he did not have an extensive criminal record.

Officers had gone to the man's home in west Edmonton on Monday night to arrest
him on an outstanding warrant for a bylaw offence. There were also going to
serve him with documents ordering him to appear in court for criminal
harassment.

That's when gunfire broke out.

Knecht said eight officers approached the door of the home but did not expect
violence. They knocked and announced themselves as police and, when no one
answered, they started to break in.

Bullets flew through the door and the first officer in line, 38-year-old Sgt.
Jason Harley, was shot once in the lower back as he turned around, said Knecht.
Body armour saved Harley's life.

Const. Daniel Woodall, 35, was also wearing a vest but was hit with bullets
elsewhere on his body and suffered a fatal, "catastrophic wound."

Knecht said the other officers took cover and were pinned down by gunfire for
the next 10 minutes. They came "very, very close to death."

Officers found 53 bullets in the house and garage across the street, said
Knecht, who added the officers didn't fire any rounds.

Investigators believe Raddatz used a large-bore rifle, a powerful gun that
carries big bullets and is often used to hunt big game animals.

Soon after, a fire started in the house and burned it to the ground. Police
found a body in the basement they believe is Raddatz. An autopsy was to be
performed Tuesday.

Knecht said police are not looking for other suspects.

Woodall was recruited to the Edmonton force from Great Britain and had served
with the Greater Manchester Police. He had been an Edmonton officer for eight
years and was assigned to the hate crimes unit.

He leaves behind a wife, Claire, and two young children. Knecht said the
children were sleeping last night and their mother was to break the news to them
Tuesday morning.

On Twitter, she thanked people for the support she has received.

"Your generous outpouring of love for myself and my boys fills my heart. He is
my hero, our boys' hero &; Edmonton's newest hero," she wrote.

Edmonton Mayor Don Iveson choked back tears and struggled to talk to reporters.

"I reflect the sadness that I feel in the community," he said. "But I feel this
most deeply as a father of young children and I'm incredibly sad for them and
for Mrs. Woodall."

But Edmonton is still a safe city, he said. "By and large, good people live here
... we rely on our police to protect us from the few and the worst among us."

Prime Minister Stephen Harper also sent condolences to Woodall's family, friends
and colleagues.

"It is a very difficult reminder that police officers across our country put
their lives on the line every day to serve and protect our communities and keep
us safe," Harper said in a statement.

It is the second death of an Edmonton-area police officer this year. RCMP Const.
David Wynn, 42, died in January at a casino in St. Albert, north of the city,
while trying to track down the driver of a stolen truck. Auxiliary Const. Derek
Bond was seriously injured but survived.

The shooter, Shawn Maxwell Rehn, was out on bail facing 15 charges, including
escaping lawful custody, possession of a prohibited firearm and failure to show
up for a previous bail hearing on the charges. Police found him dead in a home
he had broken into.

The last officer to be killed on the job within Edmonton city limits was Const.
Ezio Faraone, who was gunned down in June 1990 while trying to arrest a suspect
who was fleeing from an armed robbery. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Telegraph-Journal (New
Brunswick)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (94%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); HATE CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES
(90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FIREARMS (89%); FIRES (78%);
ARREST WARRANTS (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT
(78%); BULLYING (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); FAMILY (77%); PRESS
CONFERENCES (76%); SPORT HUNTING (73%)

PUB-SUBJECT: edmonton,suspect,shooting,killed,police,officer

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (52%) ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015


                              50 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                 Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited
                                The Toronto Star

                            June 10, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Cop killer bullied, threatened family;
Police describe man's 'extreme' hatred that led to deadly attempt to arrest him

BYLINE: The Canadian Press

DATELINE: EDMONTON

BODY:

The suspect in a shooting that killed an Edmonton police officer and wounded
another had been the focus of a lengthy hate crimes investigation.

Police Chief Rod Knecht says police had evidence going back to February of last
year.

"The online hatred and bullying of an Edmonton family had become extreme and the
family members were increasingly worried about their personal safety, at which
time the Edmonton Police Service became involved," Knecht said at a Tuesday news
conference

Knecht identified the suspect as Norman Walter Raddatz, 42, who was known to
police, although he did not have an extensive criminal record.

Officers had gone to the man's home in west Edmonton on Monday night to arrest
him on an outstanding warrant for a bylaw offence. There were also going to
serve him with documents ordering him to appear in court for criminal
harassment. That's when gunfire broke out.

Knecht said eight officers approached the door of the home but did not expect
violence. They knocked and announced themselves as police and, when no one
answered, they started to break in.

Bullets flew through the door and the first officer in line, 38-year-old Sgt.
Jason Harley, was shot once in the lower back as he turned around, said Knecht.
Body armour saved Harley's life.

Const. Daniel Woodall, 35, was also wearing a vest but was hit with bullets
elsewhere on his body and suffered a fatal, "catastrophic wound."

Knecht said the other officers took cover and were pinned down by gunfire for
the next 10 minutes. They came "very, very close to death."

Officers found 53 bullets in the house and garage across the street, said
Knecht, who added the officers didn't fire any rounds.

Investigators believe Raddatz used a large-bore rifle, a powerful gun that
carries big bullets and is often used to hunt big game animals.

Soon after, a fire started and the house burned it to the ground. Police found a
body in the basement they believe is Raddatz. An autopsy was to be performed
Tuesday.

Knecht said police are not looking for other suspects.

Woodall was recruited to the Edmonton force from Great Britain and had served
with the Greater Manchester Police. He had been an Edmonton officer for eight
years and was assigned to the hate crimes unit.

He leaves behind a wife, Claire, and two young children. Knecht said the
children were sleeping last night and their mother was to break the news to them
Tuesday morning.

On Twitter, she thanked people for the support she has received.

"Your generous outpouring of love for myself and my boys fills my heart. He is
my hero, our boys' hero Edmonton's newest hero," she wrote.

Edmonton Mayor Don Iveson choked back tears and struggled to talk to reporters.

"I reflect the sadness that I feel in the community," he said. "But I feel this
most deeply as a father of young children and I'm incredibly sad for them and
for Mrs. Woodall."

But Edmonton is still a safe city, he said. "By and large, good people live here
... we rely on our police to protect us from the few and the worst among us."

Prime Minister Stephen Harper also sent condolences to Woodall's family, friends
and colleagues.

"It is a very difficult reminder that police officers across our country put
their lives on the line every day to serve and protect our communities and keep
us safe," Harper said in a statement.

It is the second death of an Edmonton-area police officer this year. RCMP Const.
David Wynn, 42, died in January at a casino in St. Albert, north of the city,
while trying to track down the driver of a stolen truck. Auxiliary Const. Derek
Bond was seriously injured but survived.

The shooter, Shawn Maxwell Rehn, was out on bail facing 15 charges, including
escaping lawful custody, possession of a prohibited firearm and failure to show
up for a previous bail hearing on the charges. Police found him dead in a home
he had broken into.

The last officer to be killed on the job within Edmonton city limits was Const.
Ezio Faraone, who was gunned down in June 1990 while trying to arrest a suspect
who was fleeing from an armed robbery.

With files from Riannon Westall

and Sean Wetselaar

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%);
CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FIREARMS (89%); FIRES (78%); ARREST
WARRANTS (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (78%); BULLYING (77%);
INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); FAMILY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); SPORT
HUNTING (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (52%) ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015


                              51 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                       Copyright 2015 News Bites Pty Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                           Manila Times (Philippines)

                              June 21, 2015 Sunday

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Palace condemns isabela violence

BYLINE: CATHERINE S. VALENTE

BODY:

SOURCED FROM CURRENT GLOBAL NEWSPAPERS AND JOURNALS

Malacanang has condemned in the strongest terms the fatal shooting of Vice Mayor
Florante Raspado of Jones in Isabela province on Friday.

Presidential Communications Secretary Herminio Coloma Jr. stressed that violence
has no place in Philippine politics and Filipinos are set to elect their leaders
in less than a year from now.

"Siyempre po ayaw po natin 'yung ano mang banta sa katahimikan at kaayusan ng
ating mga komunidad (Of course, we do not like any kind of threats to peace and
order in our community)," Coloma told government-run dzRB radio.

"Hindi po natin dapat bigyan ng puwang [ang karahasan] at hindi rin po
katanggap-tanggap na dahilan 'yung pulitika dahil ang pulitika naman po natin ay
dapat ding isagawa nang naaayon sa batas (We should give violence a space and
politics is not an acceptable reason for violence because politics should be
done according to what the law dictates)," he added.

Coloma said as far as the killing of Raspado is concerned, the Philippine
National Police should conduct a comprehensive investigation of the incident and
bring the killers to justice.

On Friday, Acting Isabela Police director Senior Supt. Amorsolo dela Cruz, said
in an interview over dzBB said the two suspected gunmen of the fatal shooting of
Raspado were arrested after pursuing police officers caught up with their
getaway vehicle \x96 a red Mitsubishi Adventure - along the highway going to
Quirino.

Dela Cruz said the suspects who were armed with M16 rifles, jumped out of their
van and then engaged the pursuing police officers in a brief gun fight.

Dela Cruz said the suspected gunmen are both retired soldiers.

LANGUAGE: English

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political/General News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); POLITICAL VIOLENCE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%);
INTERVIEWS (78%); ARRESTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%) PHILIPPINES (95%) Philippines; Manila

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015


                              52 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2015 Richmond Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                       Richmond Times Dispatch (Virginia)

                              May 17, 2015 Sunday
                                   2 Edition

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: State news for May 17

BYLINE: From wire reports

BODY:

STATE NEWS

Police: Stafford case may be murder-suicide

STAFFORD - A couple was found dead after shots were fired in what officers
believe was a murder-suicide, according to the Stafford County Sheriff's Office.

Deputies responded to a report of two people shot just after 11 p.m. Friday.
When they arrived they found a man and woman dead, both with gunshot wounds. The
pair have been identified as Ashley Deanna Hoffman, 32, and Ramon Deandre
Williams, 34.

Officers said a juvenile who lived in the home heard the gunshots and ran to a
relative's house down the road.

Virginia Beach officer wounds robbery suspect

VIRGINIA BEACH - Police in Virginia Beach say an officer shot one of two robbery
suspects who also held a person at gunpoint briefly before fleeing a store.

Police were called shortly before 7:30 p.m. Friday about two women who were
robbed of cellphones and a wallet.

A police statement said the armed suspects were located at a cellphone store 40
minutes later. Police said the suspects pointed a gun at the head of a person
before fleeing. The person was released unharmed.

Officers and the suspects exchanged gunfire in an alley and one of the suspects
was shot several times. Police said he was taken to a hospital with non-life
threatening injuries.

The second suspect remained at large.

Alexandria fire leaves one dead, another hurt

ALEXANDRIA - One person died in an apartment fire Saturday and another was
hospitalized with serious burns, according to the Alexandria Fire Department.

The cause was under investigation.

The name of the person who died was not immediately released.

Suspect in jewelry thefts arrested in Fairfax

FAIRFAX - Fairfax police have arrested a 39-year-old man they suspect is
connected to a string of high-end jewelry thefts.

Jan Parchewski of the Chicago area has been charged with burglary and grand
larceny in connection to numerous jewelry thefts in the Fairfax County area.

Police alleged there may be up to three accomplices.

Police said they believe Parchewski and others targeted homes owned by wealthy
residents, and that the suspects may have watched the victims.

- From wire reports

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); MURDER (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); DEATHS (90%);
SUICIDE (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); ROBBERY (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (86%); FIRE
DEPARTMENTS (78%); SHERIFFS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
(78%); ARRESTS (78%); COUNTIES (77%); BURGLARY (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); BURN
INJURIES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); FIRES (70%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); FINE JEWELRY (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (87%) VIRGINIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES
(87%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2015


                              53 of 161 DOCUMENTS


     Copyright 2015 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved

                              The Washington Post

                              June 7, 2015 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers to review police training, offer proposals

BYLINE: Ovetta Wiggins

BODY:

A bipartisan group of Maryland lawmakers on Monday will begin its work to
develop recommendations for improving police training and enhancing police
-community relations.

The legislative panel was formed last month by House Speaker Michael E. Busch
(D-Anne Arundel) and Senate President Thomas V. Mike Miller Jr. (D-Calvert) and
tasked with providing the General Assembly legislative proposals to improve
public safety and policing practices.

The committee's effort comes six weeks after riots broke out in Baltimore after
the death of Freddie Gray, a 25-year-old black man who suffered a severe spinal
cord injury while in police custody. Gray died a week after sustaining the
injury. Six Baltimore police officers have been charged in connection with his
death.

State Sen. Catherine E. Pugh (D-Baltimore), who walked throughout Baltimore
trying to spread calm during the state of emergency imposed because of the
unrest, will be the work group's co-chairperson. She said she looks forward to
developing strong proposals that will change how police are hired and how they
interact with residents.

"I'm hoping that during the process that we don't rush," Pugh said. "I want to
continue until we are sure that there is a sound policy."

Pugh said that the committee, which will hold an organizational meeting Monday,
will hear from community groups, law enforcement agencies and criminal justice
advocates. It will review police training and hiring practices, the role of
independent review boards investigating shootings and deaths involving police,
and Maryland's Law Enforcement Officers' Bill of Rights, which among other
things gives officers 10 days to secure representation before cooperating with
an investigation.

Pugh said she is particularly interested in reviewing diversity training for law
enforcement officers and looking at how often officers have psychiatric
evaluations.

State Sen. Jamie B. Raskin (D-Montgomery), who will be part of the 20-member
group, said it will build off the progress the General Assembly made this year
enacting some criminal justice reforms.

"There is this bipartisan consensus that too many people are being swept up in
the process for nonviolent and victimless offenses," Raskin said. That, he said,
helped lead to the passage of several bills designed to help ex-offenders turn
their lives around.

Among them was one giving former offenders the ability to expunge some of their
criminal records or shield long-ago or minor convictions from public view. Gov.
Larry Hogan (R) vetoed a different measure that would have allowed felons who
are on parole and probation to vote.

"The conversation about criminal justice reform is taking place at a moment of
fallen crime rates, so we are able to take a deep breath and examine what is
working and what's not," Raskin said. "Meanwhile, the advent of cellphone
photography also changed the public conversation about police-community
relationships. Several of these very high-profile incidents from across the
country have spotlighted that there is still a lot of progress to be made."

This year, the legislature approved a bill that sets the stage for police
officers to wear body cameras. A commission will be formed to review best
practices for using the cameras and set statewide policy.

Pugh said that because that commission has taken on the issue of body cameras,
the work group can look at other topics involving police interaction with
communities.

Criminal justice advocates have criticized the General Assembly for watering
down or killing legislation dealing with police conduct, including a measure
that would have required the state prosecutor to investigate all police-involved
deaths.

Del. Brett R. Wilson, an assistant state's attorney who is part of the work
group, said he has asked the panel to gather information about police-involved
shootings and deaths across the state.

"We need the numbers so we are dealing with facts, not anecdotes," said Wilson
(R-Washington). He wants to look into the circumstances of each police-involved
death, the race of the victim and whether the victim was armed.

"If we start from there, then we can look at the causes - was it a lapse of
training, overzealousness or something else?" Wilson said.

ovetta.wiggins@washpost.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%);
INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIMINAL LAW
(86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STATES OF EMERGENCY (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM
(78%); RIOTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PAROLE
(78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VETO (78%); HOMICIDE (75%); HUMAN
RESOURCES (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); PROBATION (73%); COMMUNITY
RELATIONS (73%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (71%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (70%); FELONIES
(69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: THOMAS V MIKE MILLER JR PA (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (72%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (72%)

PERSON: LARRY HOGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2015


                              54 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved
                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                              June 1, 2015 Monday

SECTION: BREAKING; My Town; Alameda; Crime; Commuting; Contra Costa; News; Local

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Slain BART officer's family sues, claims 'poor training'

BYLINE: By Andrew McGall amcgall@bayareanewsgroup.com

BODY:

DUBLIN -- A BART police officer accidentally shot to death by a colleague during
an apartment search last year was so concerned about his lack of training that
he asked his wife to sue the transit district if anything happened to him,
according to a federal lawsuit. Kellie Smith, widow of BART Detective Sgt.
Thomas "Tommy" Smith Jr., alleges that BART police chiefs routinely sent the
transit agency's officers into high-risk searches without the backup of a
trained SWAT -- Special Weapons and Tactics -- team.

BART's police leader also denied "training requests by BART detectives and
officers who were required to do the building ... searches" without the SWAT
team, according to a law firm's news release.

"Unfortunately, the lack of training ultimately led to Detective Sgt. Smith's
tragic death," said attorney Eustace de Saint Phalle.

"Not only did Tommy himself foresee and fear this outcome, but this catastrophe
could have been easily prevented and his life would have been saved," Saint
Phalle said in the news release.

In a letter sent Wednesday to BART directors and police managers, Kelliee Smith,
herself a 20-year BART police veteran, said she had tried to confidentially
resolve her concerns after her husband's January 2014 death.

She said she had heard only "denials, a refusal to take responsibility, and a
refusal to make necessary changes for officer safety and public safety."

BART attorney Dana Fox said Monday that the shooting occurred despite BART's
officers having had training that "far exceeded the standards required by (the
state Commisison on Police Officer Standards and Training), the governing agency
on police officer training in California."

"While BART has not received the lawsuit, the BART family continues to mourn the
loss of Sgt. Smith," Fox said in an email.

Kellie Smith said that she believes officers know that BART is trying to disband
its SWAT team and put more "high-risk tactical assignments on patrol officers
and detectives."

She also said in her letter that her husband was so concerned about the
department's refusal to provide training or send out the SWAT team that he asked
her to sue BART and deputy chief Ben Fairow "if anything happens to me." The
complaint, filed Friday, specifically alleges that BART's police department,
under Chief Kenton Rainey and Fairow:

Did not allow the use of trained SWAT officers for "potentially high-risk
building and probation searches."

Denied "training requests by BART detectives and officers" who had to do
building and probation searches without the assistance of BART SWAT.

Sgt. Tommy Smith, a San Ramon resident who headed BART's detective division, was
assigned to lead a team of eight officers to search the apartment of a robbery
suspect on Jan. 14, 2014.

Smith entered one door inside the one-bedroom apartment and emerged from another
in shadow, prompting a fellow officer to think he might be an armed suspect and
shoot him, according to the Alameda County District Attorney's Office report on
the killing.

The suit asks for an injunction to prevent BART from forcing employees into
tactical operations without having the necessary training and to force BART to
set training and policies for officer and public safety.

It also seeks compensation for Kellie Smith and her young daughter.

Contact Andrew McGall at 925-945-4703. Follow him at twitter.com/andrewmcgall .

GRAPHIC: Hundreds of police officers line up during funeral services for BART
police Sgt. Tom Smith Jr. at the Neighborhood Church on Wednesday, Jan 29, 2014
in Castro Valley, Calif. (Aric Crabb/Bay Area News Group Archives)
A BART officer talks to another near the apartment where a BART police officer
was fatally shot by a fellow officer during a search of an apartment in Dublin,
Calif., on Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2014. It was the first time a BART police officer
has been killed in the line of duty. (Doug Duran/Bay Area News Group)
Kelli Smith and her late husband, Thomas "Tommy" Smith Jr., in an undated family
photo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%);
PROBATION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAWYERS (77%);
LITIGATION (77%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); ROBBERY
(70%); MILITARY TRAINING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED
STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2015


                              55 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                           Copyright 2015 Goshen News
                             Goshen News (Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 2439 words

HEADLINE: POLICE NEWS: July 1, 2015

BYLINE: Goshen News, Ind.

BODY:

July 01--GOSHEN -- A rash of early morning vehicle thefts occurred in several
blocks within the northside neighborhood Sunday.

Several residents reported items were stolen from their parked and unlocked
vehicles in the 300 block of N. Eighth Street and 400 block of Center Street,
according to Goshen police.

"Because of the close proximity and time frame, these thefts are being
investigated as one incident and believed to have been committed by the same
person(s)," said Tina Kingsbury, administrative assistant with Goshen Police
Department. "There is no indication that the victims in these thefts heard any
noise during the time of the thefts."

A 17-year-old teenager reported a theft from her vehicle that occurred at
approximately 1 a.m. Sunday while it was parked in the 400 block of Center
Street.

Himelda Torres and Omar Aguilar-Dominguez, residents in the 300 block of N.
Eighth Street, also reported items missing from their vehicles.

Hector Padilla told police someone entered two of his vehicles, along with
Virgelina Esparza, Maria Chavarria and Humberto Chavarria, who reported someone
entered their vehicles and nothing was removed.

The thefts are not believed to be related to any other thefts that have occurred
in the city, Kingsbury said.

"No suspects in these thefts have been determined at this time and the incident
remains under investigation," Kingsbury said. "Police advise residents that
thefts from vehicles are usually a crime of opportunity. The would-be thief
targets unlocked vehicles. We remind everyone to never leave valuables in your
vehicle. If you must leave items in your vehicle, don't leave anything in plain
view, and always lock your vehicle."

Elkhart police pursue robbers on foot after vehicle crashes

At 12:52 a.m. Tuesday, Elkhart police were dispatched to 1850 E. Bristol Street
to an armed robbery.

The victim told police two males entered the store and one displayed a handgun.
The two males took cash and merchandise from the store and fled. Elkhart County
police were involved in a vehicle pursuit in the same area as the robbery. The
vehicle crashed in the area of N. Main and Emerald streets in Elkhart and the
occupants of the vehicle fled the scene. Police located cash and merchandise
inside the vehicle consistent with the robbery.

Jonathan Jackson, 19, Elkhart and a juvenile male were arrested for robbery with
an armed weapon during the investigation. Jackson and the juvenile are being
held at the Elkhart County jail without bond.

Goshen police investigate death of Georgia teen

A 17-year-old female was unconscious and unresponsive when Goshen police were
dispatched to a residence at 1529 S. Twelfth Street in Goshen at 11:41 a.m.
Monday.

Amber Templeton, 17, 300 Nancy St. Winder, Georgia, was transported to IU Health
Goshen Hospital, where she was pronounced dead. An autopsy was scheduled for
Tuesday morning to determine a cause of death. Police said the incident remains
under investigation and no further information was available as of Tuesday
morning.

Man arrested for dealing cocaine

Kosciusko County officers arrested a Warsaw man Tuesday morning on charges of
dealing cocaine.

Kosciusko County Drug Task Force officers arrested a Warsaw man on multiple
cocaine charges after a two-month investigation. Undercover officers stated that
the investigation culminated Tuesday with the arrest of Bernardo Cisneros, 44,
at approximately 10:45 a.m. Cisneros was taken into custody at his residence on
Old Road 30 and preliminarily charged with felony 2, dealing in cocaine, along
with felony 3, possession of cocaine/enhancing circumstances. DTF officers did
not disclose the amount of cocaine seized during the investigation, but did
state that it was "substantial". Cisneros is currently being held in the
Kosciusko County Jail on a $25,250 bond.

Juvenile illegal drug activity reported by caller

An anonymous caller reported illegal drug activity at 13542 Ind. 4 in Goshen at
9 p.m. Saturday, according to Elkhart County police. Several juveniles were
allegedly in possession of alcoholic beverages. One juvenile was allegedly found
in possession of marijuana and paraphernalia. The juveniles were released to
their parents pending charges.

Arrests

--Octavia Brown, 37 2619 Decamp Ave. Apt. 432, Elkhart, was arrested by Goshen
police on charges of theft at Kohl's, 3802 Midway Road, and rue21, 3842 Midway
Road, at 6:42 p.m. Monday. She was transported to the Elkhart County jail and
the unpaid merchandise was returned to the stores.

--Robert Krahn, 65, 9070 W. 735 North, Shipshewana, was arrested by LaGrange
County police on charges of operating a vehicle while intoxicated and leaving
the scene of a property crash at 4:23 a.m. Tuesday. He fled the crash at 1000
West, near 800 North in LaGrange County and was booked into the LaGrange County
jail.

--Damon Swoape, 50, 22224 Ind. 120, Elkhart, was stopped on Middleton Run Road,
south of Middlebury Street in Middlebury for traffic violations at 12:27 a.m.
Tuesday. He was arrested on a charge of driving while intoxicated and
incarcerated at the Elkhart County jail.

--Dustin Holdeman, 33, 68254 Jackson St., New Paris, was stopped for traffic
violations in the area of C.R. 46 and C.R. 23 in New Paris at 11:39 p.m. Friday
by Elkhart County police. He was arrested on a charge of driving while
intoxicated and incarcerated at the Elkhart County jail.

--Two 14-year-old male juveniles were arrested in the 1500 block of S. Main
Street in Goshen for resisting law enforcement at 9:59 p.m. Sunday. Both males
were released to their parents after signing a juvenile social history form,
according to Goshen police.

--Shalisha Ochoa, 27, 2004 E. Lincoln Ave., Goshen, was arrested by Goshen
police on charges of domestic battery in the presence of a minor and battery
after a domestic argument at the residence. The incident occurred at 10:47 p.m.
Sunday and she was transported to the Elkhart County jail.

--Rosario Galeano, 39, 3757 N. 900 West, Cromwell, was stopped in the area of
C.R. 42, east of Ind. 15 in Goshen for a traffic violation at 3:07 a.m.
Saturday. She was arrested by Elkhart County police on charges of operating a
vehicle while intoxicated and intimidation on a law enforcement officer. She was
transported to the Elkhart County jail.

--Grace Rogers, 41, 226 Roxbury Park, Goshen, was stopped for reckless driving
at a high rate of speed on Old 33, west of C.R. 3 in Elkhart at 6:28 a.m.
Sunday. She was arrested on charges of driving while intoxicated and possession
of a controlled substance by Elkhart County police and booked into the county
jail.

--Mary Swihart, 26, 19370 U.S. Hwy 20, Bristol, was arrested by Elkhart County
police on a charge of operating a vehicle while intoxicated during a traffic
stop at C.R.s 22 and 27 in Goshen at 4:11 p.m. Sunday. She was incarcerated at
the Elkhart County jail.

--Claude Walsh, 18, 7680 N. 00 West, Howe, was arrested by LaGrange police on
charges of burglary, resisting law enforcement and trespassing Sunday and booked
into the county jail.

--Elizabeth A. Dunderman, 47, 1013 S. 13th St., Goshen, was arrested by Elkhart
County police on a charge of operating a vehicle while intoxicated Friday and
booked into the county jail.

--Tyris Tarrell Green, 25, 2633 Ponderosa Court #4K, Goshen, was arrested
Saturday by Elkhart County police on charges of neglect of dependent, operating
a vehicle while intoxicated and possession of marijuana and transported to the
Elkhart County jail.

--Adan Pedroza, 37, 212 Cottage Ave., Goshen, was arrested by Elkhart police on
a charge of no operators, chauffeurs or public passenger license Sunday and
booked into the county jail.

--Stanley Charles Messick, 51, 23 Maple St., Bristol, was arrested on a charge
of dealing in a schedule V controlled substance by Elkhart County police Sunday
and transported to the Elkhart County jail.

--Joe Devon Yoder, 27, 9990 W. 500 South, Millersburg, was arrested by
Middlebury police on a charge of illegal possession of alcohol Saturday and
transported to the Elkhart County jail.

--Jerry A. Jump, 36, 603 Gra-Roy 2, Goshen, was arrested by Elkhart County
police on a charge of no operators, chauffeurs or public passenger license
Saturday and booked into the county jail.

--Christopher Dale Wheeler, 45, 60370 Fenmore Ave., Goshen, was arrested on
charges of operating a vehicle wile intoxicated and forgery Friday and
incarcerated at the Elkhart County jail, according to Elkhart County police.

--Joaquin Rubio, 32, 604 Hawthorn St., Bristol, was arrested by Elkhart police
on charges of contempt of court, false informing and possession of paraphernalia
Sunday and booked into the county jail.

--Jeffrey Michael Boals, 44, 1065 E. Centennial St., Nappanee, was arrested by
Nappanee police on a charge of operating a vehicle while intoxicated Saturday
and transported to the Elkhart County jail.

--Jimmy Lee Rohn, 68, 620 Wilkinson, Goshen, was arrested by Elkhart County
police Friday on a charge of driving while intoxicated and booked into the
county jail.

--Larry O. Bontrager, 34, 16391 C.R. 20, Goshen, was arrested by Elkhart County
police on a charge of operating a vehicle while intoxicated Friday and
transported to the Elkhart County jail.

--Chelsea Jade Stein, 22, 701 S. Eighth St., Goshen, was arrested on charges of
theft Friday, according to Elkhart County police.

--Joey Fuller, 20, 0860 U.S. 20, LaGrange, was arrested by LaGrange police on
charges of possession of marijuana, possession of paraphernalia, maintaining a
common nuisance and a minor in possession of alcohol Saturday. He was booked
into the LaGrange County jail.

--Logan Owens, 20, 308 Hillside Drive, LaGrange, was arrested by LaGrange police
on charges of minor in possession of alcohol and visiting a common nuisance
Saturday and booked into the county jail.

--Gregory Hicks, 52, 53305 C.R. 43, Middlebury, was arrested by LaGrange County
police on a charge of operating a vehicle while intoxicated after driving a
scooter on Ind. 120, east of Ind. 5 in Howe at 10 a.m. Friday. He was booked
into the LaGrange County jail.

--Jacob Campbell, 18, 200 E. Vine St., Wolcottville, was arrested by
Wolcottville police on a warrant of battery Friday and booked into the county
jail.

--Heather C. Trittipo, 28, Sunny Slope Apartments, Shipshewana, was arrested by
LaGrange County police on a charge of domestic battery in the presence of a
minor at 6:04 p.m. Thursday. She was transported to the LaGrange County jail.

--Brittany Samantha Nadine Wade, 27, 25108 Dunny St., Elkhart, was arrested by
Goshen police on C.R. 45, near Old C.R. 17 in Goshen on charges of possession of
Methamphetamine, possession of marijuana and possession of drug paraphernalia
during a traffic stop. Wade had a warrant through the Elkhart County Sheriff's
Department for a probation violation and was incarcerated at the Elkhart County
jail. The incident occurred at 8:30 a.m. Sunday.

--William D. Parks, 26, 63594 Primrose Road, North Liberty, was arrested in the
4500 block of Elkhart Road for possession of drug paraphernalia and a Marshall
County warrant by Goshen police at 5:03 p.m. Sunday. He was transported to the
Elkhart County jail.

Theft/burglary reports

--Richard Woods, Saira Palomar and Ernesto Dominguez-Carmona, residents in the
400 block of N. Fifth Street, reported to Goshen police thefts that occurred at
approximately 2 a.m. Sunday with items stolen from their vehicles.

--Kevin Joy, 479 Broadmore Estates, Goshen, reported someone stole tools and
money from his vehicle between 5:08 p.m. Thursday and 5 a.m. Friday, according
to Elkhart County police.

--Sheila Hartman, 210 Tanglewood Drive, Goshen, reported suspicious behavior
around her residence to Goshen police at 6:30 a.m. Monday.

--Crystal Wielgos, 107 W. Wilkinson St., Goshen, told Goshen police someone
burglarized her residence at 12:30 p.m. Monday.

--Anthony Sydor, 463 Broadmore Estates, Goshen, told Elkhart County police
someone stole loose change and a car change holder from his vehicle between 4:47
p.m. Thursday and 2 p.m. Friday.

--Elizabeth Barron reported someone stole her wallet, credit cards, social
security card and GMC lug-nuts on wheel covers from her vehicle at 459 Broadmore
Estates in Goshen. The incident occurred between 12:14 p.m. June 23 and 12:14
p.m. June 24, according to Elkhart County police.

--Noemy Salinas of Nappanee told Elkhart County police someone committed
fraudulent activity on her debit card sometime June 15.

Vandalism reports

--Jared Keplinger, 615 N. Third St., Goshen, reported damage to his vehicle at 7
p.m. Saturday, according to Goshen police.

Teen causes injury to staff worker, arrested on alleged battery

An employee at Bashor Children's Home Alternative School, 62226 C.R. 15, Goshen,
reported a 17-year-old male struck her on the head with a chair, causing injury
to the employee at 8:30 a.m. Monday. The male was arrested on charges of two
counts of alleged felony battery and incarcerated at the Elkhart County Juvenile
Detention Center.

Incorrigible teen

Tannice Lehman reported a Goshen teen as a runaway and being incorrigible in the
200 block of W. Kercher Road in Goshen at 10 a.m. Monday. The juvenile later
returned home and was arrested on the incorrigible charge, according to Goshen
police.

Intoxicated man hospitalized after threatening others

Joseph Galvan, 27, was transported from 21475 U.S. Hwy 20 in Goshen to Elkhart
General Hospital for an emergency detention for a mental health evaluation after
threats to harm others and being intoxicated at 5:02 p.m. Monday, according to
Elkhart County police.

Leaving the scene of a crash

--Cody Belleville, 20, reported a driver in a black passenger vehicle collided
with the gray 2013 Chrysler 200 he was driving on C.R. 38, east of C.R. 21 in
Goshen at 8:30 p.m. Friday. The driver fled the scene without provided driver or
vehicle information, according to Elkhart County police.

--Cody Simington, 250 Timberbrook Circle, Bristol reported to Elkhart County
police of being struck in the head with a glass object, causing a laceration, by
a known person at 2:17 p.m. Saturday. The person fled the scene and traveled
north on C.R. 19 and collided with a tree on C.R. 19, south of Ind. 120. The
person fled the scene of the crash and the incident remains under investigation.

--Timothy Stair of Goshen, reported his vehicle being rear ended by a red Jeep
Wrangler at the intersection of Indiana and Lincoln Avenues in Goshen at 2:07
p.m. Monday. The driver left the scene and failed to make a report, according to
Goshen police.

___ (c)2015 the Goshen News (Goshen, Ind.) Visit the Goshen News (Goshen, Ind.)
at www.goshennews.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GW

SUBJECT: VEHICLE THEFT (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
(90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); ROBBERY (89%); ARRESTS (78%);
TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE CRIME (78%); AUTOPSIES (76%); BAIL (65%);
CORRECTIONS (64%); DEATHS (63%)

INDUSTRY: General

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015


                              56 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 2015 Reading Eagle
                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 9, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Reading Eagle, Pa. Steven Henshaw column

BYLINE: Steven Henshaw, Reading Eagle, Pa.

BODY:

May 09--On March 1, 1937, state Highway Patrolman J. Lee Clarke was fatally
injured when his motorcycle got caught in streetcar tracks in Reading, causing
him to veer into an oncoming coal truck.

The precise cause of most police officer deaths may have changed since the first
half of the last century -- for instance, you no longer hear about motor cops
wiping out on trolley tracks -- but the manner of death in the majority of
line-of-duty fatalities has not.

The seed for this column was planted while I was covering the annual memorial
service May 1 at the state police station on Kenhorst Boulevard in Reading.

In the 110-year-history of Reading-based Troop L, 12 members made the ultimate
sacrifice, but not necessarily in the way you might expect.

Although three Troop L members were killed during confrontations with armed
suspects, six died in motor vehicle accidents and two died in helicopter
crashes.

One other trooper died accidentally of carbon monoxide poisoning shortly after
assisting firefighters extinguish a vehicle fire in which two occupants were
trapped in the wreckage.

Seventy-eight years after Clarke's fatal collision with the coal truck, it's
still far more likely that an officer will be killed by accident than slain by
gunfire -- or other methods, for that matter, according to a recent report by
the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration.

That may have been expected in 1937, when seat belts and other safety standards
were not as advanced as today. But in 2015, it's unacceptable.

In March, 50 municipal and state police officers from Berks and Schuylkill
counties attended training in Hamburg as part of a national initiative called
Below 100.

The goal is to reduce annual line-of-duty deaths of officers in all states to
fewer than 100.

The last year in which fewer than 100 officers died on duty was 1944. Annual
line-of-duty deaths in the U.S. peaked at 278 in 1974 but averaged more than 150
the past 10 years, according to NHTSA.

The data indicate that too many officers' deaths are due to officer negligence
or carelessness, including speed too fast for conditions, inattention and not
wearing seat belts, the report authors said.

Apparently some, but certainly not all, officers do not practice what they
preach.

Contact Steven Henshaw: 610-371-5028 or shenshaw@readingeagle.com

___ (c)2015 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY (89%); TRUCK SAFETY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%);
MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (88%); POISONINGS (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (77%);
AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (73%); CARBON MONOXIDE (67%); FIRES (67%); RESEARCH REPORTS
(66%); HELICOPTERS (53%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (52%); WRITERS (50%)

INDUSTRY: General

GEOGRAPHIC: READING, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2015


                              57 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                              June 26, 2015 Friday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Union fights release of 2012 shooting report;
Pasadena police ask appeals court to back confidentiality in Kendrec McDade
shooting case.

BYLINE: Richard Winton

BODY:

More than three years after two Pasadena police officers fatally shot an unarmed
black teenager, a state appeals court heard arguments this week from the police
union, which is trying to block release of an independent report on the killing.

Portions of that report released during the legal battle called the slaying
"troubling" and said the shooting was preceded by tactical mistakes.

For about two hours Wednesday, a three-judge panel from the 2nd District Court
of Appeal questioned an attorney for the Pasadena Police Officers' Assn. as well
as lawyers representing those who want the report released, including the Los
Angeles Times and the teen's mother.

Richard Shinee, an attorney for the union, told the justices that the two
officers involved gave voluntary statements to criminal homicide investigators.
But, he said, the department used those statements in a subsequent personnel
review.

"The chief of police relied on those statements to decide if they violated
[administrative] policy," Shinee said.

The independent consultant's report, which was conducted for the city, used the
private personnel information, so the entire report should be withheld from the
public, he said.

The report has been kept secret since it was completed last summer. The Pasadena
police union representing Officers Jeffrey Newlen and Matthew Griffin, who shot
and killed Kendrec McDade on March 24, 2012, sued to block the report's release.
The union contended the assessment of the officers' actions was legally
protected personnel information.

But during oral argument, the justices questioned the notion that any
information collected and put into a personnel file is prohibited from
disclosure.

Justice Jeffrey Johnson wondered whether the phone book would get protection if
it was put into an officer's personnel file. He suggested that under the union's
argument, no shooting investigation should be public.

Presiding Justice Frances Rothschild said it would be a stretch to withhold the
entire report, noting that the privacy protection is for officers, not an entire
department.

The appellate case stemmed from a ruling in November when Los Angeles County
Superior Court Judge James Chalfant decided that most of the independent
consultant's report could be made public, with limited redactions. The police
union then filed a petition with the appellate court to stop the release.

Kelli Sager, representing The Times, told the justices that only records
generated for the specific purpose of appraisal or discipline constitute
personnel records and the report was neither. She warned that the department
could simply "sweep up everything" into personnel files.

The case illustrates the growing divide between police unions and the public
when it comes to officer accountability. Sager said that given the national
climate, the public has more interest than ever in police officers' use of
deadly force.

"We are talking about a young man shot eight times," she told the justices about
McDade.

McDade was being pursued by officers on Sunset Avenue when Griffin, in a police
car, cut off his path with the vehicle and, seeing McDade's hand at his
waistband, shot him, according to prosecutors.

Newlen, chasing on foot and believing his partner had come under fire, shot the
teenager as well.

The Pasadena Police Officers' Assn. included significant portions of the report
in legal papers filed with the appellate court.

The report by the Office of Independent Review consulting group found Griffin
and Newlen made faulty tactical errors, including a lack of communication
between the officers, their decision to enter a narrow alleyway and put
themselves in a vulnerable position, and closing their distance on a suspect
they believed was armed based on a false 911 report.

"They repeatedly made tactical decisions that were not congruent with principles
of officer safety," the report concluded, according to excerpts contained in the
union filing.

Such tactical mistakes by officers putting themselves in a position of danger
led to "the eventual perceived need to use deadly force," the report said.

The report called certain maneuvers by Griffin "troubling," and concluded the
officer made a "potentially disastrous mistake" when he got out of the patrol
car without putting it in park. Newlen separated himself from his partner to
chase McDade, even though department policy suggests that officers stay together
during foot pursuits, the report stated.

Both officers were cleared of wrongdoing in the Police Department's internal
review and by the L.A. County district attorney's office. Pasadena paid about $1
million to settle wrongful-death suits brought by McDade's parents.

--

richard.winton@latimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: KENDREC MCDADE was 19 when he was fatally shot in March 2012.
PHOTOGRAPHER:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); APPEALS COURTS (91%); POLICE FORCES (91%); LABOR
UNIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
(90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (87%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (78%);
COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); JUDGES (78%); PETITIONS (78%);
POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (73%); HOMICIDE (72%); PRIVACY
RIGHTS (67%)

PUB-SUBJECT: PASADENA POLICE DEPARTMENT; POLICE SHOOTINGS; BLACKS; YOUTH; DEATH;
POLICE INVESTIGATIONS; UNIONS; COURTS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS:
PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015


                              58 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2015 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                               The Baltimore Sun

                             June 23, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Police recount shooting at garage;
Suspect tried to rob hack driver, then pointed gun at 2 city officers, they say

BYLINE: By Kevin Rector, The Baltimore Sun

BODY:

Two Baltimore police officers say a man attempted to rob a hack driver, and then
led them on a chase to an auto garage in Northwest Baltimore and pointed a
pistol at them -- prompting them to fire their service weapons.

The standoff in the 5200 block of Eleanora Ave. on the morning of June 7 left
Keith Davis Jr. hospitalized in critical condition with a gunshot wound to the
face, police said. He has been charged with 17 crimes related to the incident,
including first-degree assault, attempted armed robbery and multiple gun
violations, according to court records.

Davis, 23, of the 11700 block of Stonegate Lane, Columbia, is also charged with
discharging a firearm. A police description of the events filed in Baltimore
District Court makes no mention of his firing the .22-caliber long pistol that
police said he brandished.

The records do, however, provide the most detailed account of the police
-involved shooting to date.

Officers Catherine Filippou and Lane Eskins were in the 3900 block of W.
Belvedere Ave. about 10 a.m. June 7 to help investigate a car crash when an
unlicensed cab driver, or hack, pulled into the accident scene and told the
officers that his passenger had a gun and was attempting to rob him, police
said.

Davis then jumped out of the car and ran, police said. Eskins gave chase.

Davis ran into the auto garage, police said. Eskins and Sgt. Alfredo Santiago
said they observed Davis "with gun in hand attempting to gain cover" behind a
refrigerator and steel cabinets.

Davis then "raised his weapon and pointed it in the direction" of Eskins and
Santiago, police said. They said the officers ordered him to drop the weapon and
raise his hands, "which he refused."

Eskins and Santiago then opened fire, police said. Davis "continued to take a
position of cover," police said, and more officers were called to the scene.

Officers arriving said they could see that Davis was still pointing his weapon
toward the police, they said, and "additional shots were fired."

Davis "then yelled that he would put the gun down and come out if the officers
would not kill him," police said. He surrendered and "laid on the ground with
his hands spread."

Officers found Davis with a gunshot wound to his face and called for a medic,
police said. Davis was taken to Sinai Hospital in critical but stable condition,
they said.

Police said they found the long pistol on the top of the refrigerator Davis had
used for cover. No officers were injured in the standoff.

Charles Holden, the hack driver, told police that Davis got into the front
passenger seat and asked to be taken to the Yale Heights Apartments, police
said.

On the way, Holden told police, Davis "pulled out a handgun," demanded money and
then patted down Holden's front pockets, police said. Then Holden pulled up to
the crash scene.

Eskins, Filippou, Santiago and Officer Israel Lopez have been placed on
administrative duties pending a review of the shooting by the Police
Department's force investigation team, police said. None of the officers has
been involved in a shooting before, police said.

Davis has been charged with attempted armed robbery, attempted robbery, three
counts each of first-degree assault and second-degree assault, four weapons
charges, failure to obey police, theft, and three counts of reckless
endangerment.

Davis is now being held in jail. He did not have an attorney listed in court
records. A trial has been scheduled for July 14.

Also on Monday, the Maryland Transit Administration named MTA Police Officer
Aaron Jackson, 28, a three-year veteran of the force, as the officer who shot an
armed suspect in the leg in the 5500 block of Harford Road on Friday night after
"a struggle."

The man was taken to Johns Hopkins Hospital for treatment. Baltimore police are
investigating the shooting. Details have not been provided, and the suspect has
not been identified or charged.

Jackson has been assigned to administrative duties pending the investigation.

krector@baltsun.com

twitter.com/rectorsun

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS
(90%); ROBBERY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); ACCIDENT
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); POLICE
MISCONDUCT (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); FIREARMS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%);
CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%)

PUB-SUBJECT: Baltimore City Police Shooting

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2015


                              59 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved
                      Orange County Register (California)

                            June 10, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: D.A. rules police justified in shooting

BYLINE: BY SEAN EMERY, STAFF WRITER



HIGHLIGHT: Six Anaheim officers killed robbery suspect after he shot at them.

 BODY:

Six Anaheim police officers were justified in shooting and killing a suspected
armed robber who opened fire on them during a SWAT standoff, Orange County
prosecutors have determined.

Investigators have cleared officers Nick Bennalack, Mark Brydges, Jeff Burke,
Douglas Elms, Catalin Panov and Steven Salicos for the death of Steen Thomas
Parker, who spent an hour holed up in a vehicle at an auto lot during the
standoff Sept. 19, according to a letter to Anaheim Police Chief Raul Quezada
outlining the results of the district attorney's investigation.

Witnesses reported that Parker, 43, was confronted by a security officer at a
Fry's electronics store after he and an accomplice tried to steal electronic
equipment. Parker reportedly pulled a handgun from a shoulder holster hidden
under a blazer and pointed it at the security officer as he fled the store, the
D.A. report says.

Authorities tracked him to a lot at Manheim Auto Auction in the 1300 block of
North Tustin. The department's helicopter, a SWAT team and police dogs responded
to the area, while Parker hid in a BMW parked in the lot. According to D.A.
investigators, Parker ignored numerous commands broadcast from the police
helicopter and from a SWAT vehicle, along with direct orders from officers.

Police told D.A. investigators that they used a wide variety of non-lethal
measures to get Parker out of the BMW, including gas, pepper ball and bean-bag
rounds, as well as a rubber baton fired from a launcher.

Eventually, police heard a gunshot come from the BMW and suspected that Parker
was trying to "bait" the officers into thinking he had committed suicide so that
they would come near the BMW. Several minutes later, officers saw Parker moving
in the back of the vehicle and once again ordered him to get out, according to
the D.A. report.

Parker appeared to be ready to comply, officers told D.A. investigators, raising
his hands to show police a handgun magazine with at least two cartridges and
beginning to move his body. The officers believed that Parker was under the
influence of a controlled substance, since his movements were "short and
choppy," and he was continually clenching his teeth and jaw.

The officers told investigators that Parker suddenly dropped his hands, then
raised them again quickly, at which point an officer fired a beanbag round,
striking Parker in the shoulder. Parker fell to his right, clutched his shoulder
and screamed, then pointed a handgun at two officers and began firing in their
direction, according to the D.A. report.

The officers returned gunfire, they told investigators, striking Parker numerous
times. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

A toxicology examination following Parker's death determined that he had
methamphetamine in his system.

D.A. investigators concluded that the half-dozen officers who shot Parker acted
in self-defense.

"Despite numerous commands to surrender and police use of non-lethal force,
Parker continued to brandish a handgun," the investigators wrote in the D.A.
report. "Finally, Parker actually opened fire at the officers from close
proximity. It is very hard to imagine a more dangerous set of circumstances to
police officers than being in close proximity to an armed robbery suspect who is
pointing his gun at the officers and firing at them."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); ROBBERY (91%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (90%);
INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%);
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); DEATHS (77%); PARKING SPACES &
FACILITIES (76%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (74%); SELF DEFENSE (73%);
DOGS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); HELICOPTERS (67%); SUICIDE (50%);
METHAMPHETAMINE (50%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (91%); FRY'S ELECTRONICS INC (57%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (91%); BMW (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%);
NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, &
PARTS (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS443141
HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (57%); SIC5722 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015


                              60 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 18, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime; News; State; Local

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Mill Valley man accused of killing his brother with handgun

BYLINE: By Gary Klien The Marin Independent Journal

BODY:

A Mill Valley man was arrested early Wednesday on suspicion of shooting his
brother to death in the home they shared with their mother and uncle.

Johnson Kelley Gibbs, a 41-year-old computer programmer, was booked into Marin
County Jail on suspicion of murder. He is being held without bail pending
further review by the Marin County District Attorney's Office.

The shooting occurred at about 12:30 a.m. at 57 Bayview Terrace in the
Strawberry neighborhood. Marin County sheriff's deputies and Southern Marin
firefighters arrived to find the man dead of a single gunshot wound to the
chest, said sheriff's Lt. Jamie Scardina.

During the course of interviews, Gibbs told detectives that he shot his brother,
Scardina said. Investigators were still trying to determine what set off the
alleged attack.

The victim's mother and uncle were in the residence at the time but did not
witness the shooting. They told investigators they were unaware of any argument
between the brothers this morning.

The weapon was a semiautomatic handgun. The victim was not armed and Gibbs did
not claim self-defense, Scardina said.

The victim's name was not immediately released while authorities worked to
notify other family members. He was 43 years old.

Sheriff's detectives sealed off a section of Bayview Terrace while executing a
search warrant on the property, which is adjacent to the south side of Tiburon
Boulevard. Several neighbors said they heard no gunshots during the night.

"It's really very said," said Andrea Zanko, a longtime neighborhood resident who
does not know Gibbs or his family. "A lot of us have lived here for decades. I
think the saddest part for me is that if these people needed help and weren't
getting it -- mental illness help -- that's the saddest thing."

The home has been owned by Annette Gibbs since 2000. Both she and Johnson Gibbs
have a prior address of St. Lucia Place in the Paradise Cay neighborhood of
unincorporated Tiburon.

Johnson Gibbs has no felony record in Marin County but does have two misdemeanor
cases. In 2009, he pleaded guilty to driving while intoxicated, and last June he
was arrested in a prostitution sting at the Holiday Inn Express in Mill Valley.

He was granted diversion from prosecution for two years, after which the would
be dismissed if he paid certain fines and fees and performed 30 hours of
community service. ------ (c)2015 The Marin Independent Journal (Novato, Calif.)
Visit The Marin Independent Journal (Novato, Calif.) at www.marinij.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. AMX-2015-06-17T23:18:00-04:00

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); CRIMINAL
OFFENSES (89%); MURDER (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CORRECTIONS (78%); FAMILY
(78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); FELONIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); GUILTY PLEAS
(77%); SEARCH WARRANTS (73%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (73%); BAIL (73%);
ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (73%); SELF DEFENSE (73%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%);
EYEWITNESSES (73%); DEATHS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%);
PROSTITUTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED
STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015


                              61 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved
                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                             June 18, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Mill Valley man accused of killing his brother with handgun

BYLINE: By Gary Klien The Marin Independent Journal

BODY:

A Mill Valley man was arrested early Wednesday on suspicion of shooting his
brother to death in the home they shared with their mother and uncle.

Johnson Kelley Gibbs, a 41-year-old computer programmer, was booked into Marin
County Jail on suspicion of murder. He is being held without bail pending
further review by the Marin County District Attorney's Office.

The shooting occurred at about 12:30 a.m. at 57 Bayview Terrace in the
Strawberry neighborhood. Marin County sheriff's deputies and Southern Marin
firefighters arrived to find the man dead of a single gunshot wound to the
chest, said sheriff's Lt. Jamie Scardina.

During the course of interviews, Gibbs told detectives that he shot his brother,
Scardina said. Investigators were still trying to determine what set off the
alleged attack.

The victim's mother and uncle were in the residence at the time but did not
witness the shooting. They told investigators they were unaware of any argument
between the brothers this morning.

The weapon was a semiautomatic handgun. The victim was not armed and Gibbs did
not claim self-defense, Scardina said.

The victim's name was not immediately released while authorities worked to
notify other family members. He was 43 years old.

Sheriff's detectives sealed off a section of Bayview Terrace while executing a
search warrant on the property, which is adjacent to the south side of Tiburon
Boulevard. Several neighbors said they heard no gunshots during the night.

"It's really very said," said Andrea Zanko, a longtime neighborhood resident who
does not know Gibbs or his family. "A lot of us have lived here for decades. I
think the saddest part for me is that if these people needed help and weren't
getting it -- mental illness help -- that's the saddest thing."

The home has been owned by Annette Gibbs since 2000. Both she and Johnson Gibbs
have a prior address of St. Lucia Place in the Paradise Cay neighborhood of
unincorporated Tiburon.

Johnson Gibbs has no felony record in Marin County but does have two misdemeanor
cases. In 2009, he pleaded guilty to driving while intoxicated, and last June he
was arrested in a prostitution sting at the Holiday Inn Express in Mill Valley.

He was granted diversion from prosecution for two years, after which the would
be dismissed if he paid certain fines and fees and performed 30 hours of
community service. ------ (c)2015 The Marin Independent Journal (Novato, Calif.)
Visit The Marin Independent Journal (Novato, Calif.) at www.marinij.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC. AMX-2015-06-17T23:18:00-04:00

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); MURDER
(78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CORRECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MISDEMEANORS
(78%); FELONIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); SEARCH
WARRANTS (73%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (73%); BAIL (73%); ILLEGAL
PROSTITUTION (73%); SELF DEFENSE (73%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%);
EYEWITNESSES (73%); DEATHS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%);
PROSTITUTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED
STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015


                              62 of 161 DOCUMENTS


    Copyright 2015 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved
                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                             June 18, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Man arrested; brother slain;
Computer programmer booked after shooting at home they shared

BYLINE: Gary Klien; gklien@marinij.com @GaryKlien on Twitter

BODY:


ABSTRACT

homicide

FULL TEXT

A Mill Valley man was arrested early Wednesday on suspicion of shooting his
brother to death in the home they shared with their mother and uncle.

Johnson Kelley Gibbs, a 41-year-old computer programmer, was booked into Marin
County Jail on suspicion of murder. He is being held without bail pending
further review by the Marin County District Attorney's Office.

The shooting occurred at about 12:30 a.m. at 57 Bayview Terrace in the
Strawberry neighborhood. Marin County sheriff's deputies and Southern Marin
firefighters arrived to find the man dead of a single gunshot wound to the
chest, said sheriff's Lt. Jamie Scardina.

During the course of interviews, Gibbs told detectives that he shot his brother,
Scardina said. Investigators were still trying to

determine what set off the alleged attack.

The victim's mother and uncle were in the residence at the time but did not
witness the shooting. They told investigators they were unaware of any argument
between the brothers this morning.

The weapon was a semiautomatic handgun. The victim was not armed and Gibbs did
not claim self-defense, Scardina said.

The victim's name was not immediately released while authorities worked to
notify other family members. He was 43 years old.

Sheriff's detectives sealed off a section of Bayview Terrace while executing a
search warrant on the property, which is adjacent to the south side of Tiburon
Boulevard. Several neighbors said they heard no gunshots during the night.

"It's really very said," Andrea Zanko, a longtime neighborhood resident who does
not know Gibbs or his family. "A lot of us have lived here for decades. I think
the saddest part for me is that if these people needed help and weren't getting
it - mental illness help - that's the saddest thing."

The home has been owned by Annette Gibbs since 2000. Both she and Johnson Gibbs
have a prior address of St. Lucia Place in the Paradise Cay neighborhood of
unincorporated Tiburon.

Johnson Gibbs has no felony record in Marin County but does have two misdemeanor
cases. In 2009, he pleaded guilty to driving while intoxicated, and last June he
was arrested in a prostitution sting at the Holiday Inn Express in Mill Valley.

He was granted diversion from prosecution for two years, after which the would
be dismissed if he paid certain fines and fees and performed 30 hours of
community service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (91%); ARRESTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%);
CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); MURDER (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CORRECTIONS
(78%); FAMILY (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); DEATHS (78%); FELONIES (78%); COUNTY
GOVERNMENT (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); SEARCH WARRANTS (73%); COMMUNITY SERVICE
SENTENCING (73%); BAIL (73%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (73%); SELF DEFENSE (73%);
DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%); EYEWITNESSES (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%);
MENTAL ILLNESS (50%); PROSTITUTION (50%)

PUB-SUBJECT: Breaking News Alert; Crime; Mill Valley; Home

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED
STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015


                              63 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Hartford Courant (Connecticut)

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                               FINAL - 5 EDITION

SECTION: CONNECTICUT; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: JURY ACQUITS OFFICER;
INVOLVED IN FATAL CRASH ON DUTY;
HARTFORD POLICE

BYLINE:  DAVID OWENS, dowens@courant.com

DATELINE: NEW BRITAIN --

BODY:

A Hartford police officer who was arrested after he was involved in a fatal
crash while on duty was acquitted of all charges Monday by a Superior Court
jury.

The prosecution of Officer Taikwon Dudley was transferred to the New Britain
Judicial District from Hartford to avoid any potential conflict of interest.

Hartford police charged Dudley, 35, with negligent homicide with a motor
vehicle, reckless driving, traveling unreasonably fast and running a red light
after an investigation into the July 13, 2012, crash at Woodland Street and
Albany Avenue.

Anthony Mansfield, 50, was seriously injured in the crash and died seven days
later.

Dudley's police car, a Ford Crown Victoria, crashed into Mansfield's Chevy
Cavalier about 12:45 a.m. Dudley said he was rushing to help other officers in
pursuit of an armed suspect when the crash occurred.

Hartford police found that Dudley was driving 57 mph on Woodland Street and ran
a red light before crashing into the passenger side of Mansfield's car. Dudley
told police he slowed at the intersection and looked both ways and that the
Cavalier then appeared in front of him. He had turned on his lights and siren
100 to 130 feet before the intersection, investigators found.

Dudley's lawyer, Kevin Smith of New Haven, said the jury began deliberating
Friday afternoon and reached its verdict about 11 a.m. Monday.

"This was a terrible tragic case and Taikwon certainly feels that way himself,"
Smith said. "He is grateful to the jury for their service."

Dudley is satisfied with the verdict, but "still remains terribly sorry for this
tragic accident," Smith said.

Smith praised the jury for focusing on the evidence.

"It's not a crime every time someone dies," he said. "A lot of times, for a
jury, when someone died, there is a lot of pressure on them to place that blame
somewhere."

Hartford Deputy Police Chief Brian Foley said Dudley has been on an internal
assignment as the case has progressed.

"Now that the criminal case has been adjudicated, there will be a separate
administrative investigation," Foley said.

Mansfield's estate has sued the city, the police department and Dudley. The case
is pending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (91%); ACQUITTAL (90%); LAW
COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%);
EMERGENCY VEHICLES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ARRESTS (78%);
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (73%);
MANSLAUGHTER (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); NEGLIGENCE (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (55%)

PERSON: KEVIN SMITH (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (53%) CONNECTICUT, USA
(94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                              64 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Edmonton Journal
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             May 20, 2015 Wednesday
                                 Early Edition

SECTION: CITY &; REGION; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Suspect killed in shootout with police; Officer wounded after pulling
over man armed with shotgun

BYLINE: Jana G. Pruden And Keith Gerein, Edmonton Journal

BODY:

The suspect killed in a shooting with police Monday was armed with a sawed-off
shotgun, the Alberta Serious Incident Response Team's executive director said
Tuesday. Susan Hughson said the incident began when the suspect was pulled over
at 118th Avenue and Abbottsfield Road by two Edmonton Police Service officers
who had received a tip about a possible impaired driver at about 9:30 p.m.
Monday.

"The 31-year-old driver and sole occupant of the vehicle became involved in an
altercation with the police officers," Hughson said.

The suspect was shot and died at the scene. A police officer was also shot and
wounded during the incident, but not critically injured. The officer remained in
hospital Tuesday and was expected to make a full recovery.

The suspect's name is not being released, though he was known to police. He was
not the owner of the car, but Hughson said police have no reason to believe it
was stolen.

Hughson said an autopsy will be performed Wednesday.

The ASIRT investigators concluded their work at the scene Tuesday morning.

Speaking to reporters at a news conference at police headquarters about 12:30
a.m. Tuesday, Edmonton police Chief Rod Knecht said "a confrontation" occurred
during the traffic stop.

"There was an exchange of gunfire and an EPS member was shot," he said.

He said the suspect was fatally shot and pronounced dead at the scene.

The officer, an eight-year veteran of the Edmonton Police Service, was taken to
hospital by police with a wound to his lower body.

Knecht described the officer as being "heavily sedated, but in good spirits"
overnight, surrounded by family and other officers at hospital.

The injured officer's name has not been released. He is described as being in
his 40s.

Knecht said the other officer involved in the incident has been a member of EPS
for 10 years.

A Nissan Maxima sedan remained parked in one of the westbound lanes of 118th
Avenue on Tuesday morning, its driver's side door open. A large section of road
and most of a neighbouring park was cordoned off with police tape as
investigators worked.

Officers could be seen taking photos and measurements around the area. "One of
the most dangerous things officers do is stop cars," Knecht said during the
early morning news conference. "The public probably doesn't appreciate that
because they think, 'Well I'm just getting a ticket or whatever else.' But it's
really an unknown for us when we stop a car. You don't know who is in the
vehicle and what they have been doing or what they plan on doing."

Hughson said she knows which officer shot the suspect and how many shots were
fired, but would not release that information at this time. She said ASIRT has
investigated six or seven shootings across Alberta since Christmas. ASIRT
investigates incidents involving the province's police that have resulted in
serious injury or death to any person, as well as serious or sensitive
allegations of police misconduct. With files from Paige Parsons, Edmonton
Journal jpruden@edmontonjournal. com kgerein@edmontonjournal. com !@COPYRIGHT=©
2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

GRAPHIC: Bruce Edwards, Edmonton Journal; Police vehicles seal off the
intersection at Abbottsfield Road and 118th Avenue after an officer-involved
shooting Monday.;

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (95%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE
FORCES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
(78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); FIREARMS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); DEATHS (75%);
DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%); SEDANS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%)

PUB-SUBJECT: suspect,killed,shooting,police,armed,shotgun

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2015


                              65 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        May 24, 2015 Sunday 6:56 PM GMT

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Jed Allen Didcot murders: First pictures of three members of same
family found stabbed to death;
The manhunt for 21-year-old Jed Allen wanted in connection with the killings in
Oxfordshire has continued today, with armed police sealing off an Oxford city
centre park

BYLINE: By Sam Rkaina

BODY:

These are the first pictures of the three family members found stabbed to death
in Oxfordshire.

Mum and daughter Jan Jordon and six-year-old Derin died with third victim Philip
Howard at a home on Wensum Drive, Didcot,

The release of the pictures were met with message of grief from the public on
Thames Valley Police Facebook page.

One, Debbie Harris said: "God bless you all xxx Derrin you beautiful angel xx"

Another, Charley Lawson, said: "Rip u can be a princess forever little one xx"

Detectives with police dogs were today continuing the hunt for Janet's son Jed
Allen 21 in connection with the killings.

Cops have cordoned off an Oxford city centre park in connection with the deaths,
after putting out an appeal to trace him earlier today.

Teams of officers wearing riot gear were spotted moving into Oxford University
Parks this afternoon, and a forensic tent has been set up in the grounds of the
historic site.

Jed Allen Didcot murders: Live updates as police launch manhunt

Police have warned the public not to approach the 21-year-old, who was revealed
on his social media profiles to have a fascination with comic book characters
like X-Men's Wolverine.

On his Instagram page Allen has numerous pictures of the Marvel character along
with a Wolverine 21st birthday cake.

In one shot he poses with a makeshift version of the character's iconic,
razor-sharp claws and in another from 10 months ago, Allen can be seen showing
off a hunting-style knife approximately 10 inches long with the caption 'today's
purchases'.

Another picture of the same weapon has the caption 'you call that a knife' a
reference to the film Crocodile Dundee.

The former Oxford University groundsman's Instagram account is filled with
hundreds of pictures, with many featuring his distinctive tattoos.

Police alerted the public to keep an eye out for the spider on his left hand,
but he also appears to have a scorpion on his right and a bear on his chest.

His social media account shows a keen interest in comic book characters
including the violent vigilante The Punisher, and the Spiderman villain Venom.

Police launched the manhunt following the grim discovery after a member of the
public alerted cops.

Thames Valley Police say Allen has a distinctive spider tattoo on his left hand.

Police believe Allen is still in the area and have urged the public not to
approach him.

Investigating officer, Det Supt Chris Ward, head of the Thames Valley Police
Major Crime Unit, said: "The likely cause of deaths is stab wounds in relation
to the search for the suspect we are taking out a number of searches.

"Armed officers are assisting with that search.

"The suspect has a weapon."

Det Supt Ward said the searches are ongoing and intelligence led and that cops
are still looking for the Allen.

He urged anybody has any information "about happened in this road then we would
like them to come forward."

Allen is white, about 6ft, of stocky build, and has a distinctive tattoo of a
spider on his left hand, police said.

"If you see Jed please do not approach him, instead call 999 immediately.

"We would urge anyone with any other information 5756228 about the incident to
contact us via 101 quoting a new reference number of 465 (24/5).

"Did you see or hear anything suspicious in Vicarage Road yesterday? If you did
then we want to hear from you."

Important police appeal to hunt man with spider tattoo over triple murder at
house

If you don't want to speak directly to the police you can contact the
independent charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 or online at
www.crimestoppers-uk.org.

No personal details are taken, information is not traced or recorded and you
will not go to court.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DEATHS (90%); MURDER (89%);
INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (89%); VIOLENT CRIME
(78%); FORENSICS (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%);
LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); DOGS
(71%); HISTORIC SITES (69%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OXFORD, ENGLAND (92%) ENGLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2015


                              66 of 161 DOCUMENTS


        Copyright 2015 Las Cruces Sun-News, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved
                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                              June 5, 2015 Friday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Shooter at state building in Anthony ID'ed; victim critical

BYLINE:   Sun-News report

BODY:

ANTHONY, N.M . &GT;&GT; An armed suspect who entered the Human Services
Department building, 220 Crosset Lane, in Anthony on Tuesday and shot the
security guard has been identified as Benjamin Martinez, 62, of Canutillo,
Texas, according to a state Department of Public Safety news release.

The officer shot has been identified as Javier Hernandez, 41, of La Union. He
remains hospitalized in critical condition, the release stated.

Martinez left the location but was located driving on South Desert Boulevard in
west El Paso. Deputies stopped traffic and approached Martinez, discovering he
had a fatal self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to the news release.

Law enforcement did not fire any weapons and authorities have not released a
possible motive.

The New Mexico State Police Investigations Bureau is investigating incident with
the El Paso County Sheriff's Office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%);
POLICE FORCES (87%); SHERIFFS (87%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (86%); INVESTIGATIONS
(84%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (87%) TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%)
UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                              67 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved
                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                              June 2, 2015 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: BART: Slain officer's family sues

BYLINE: Andrew McGall; Bay Area News Group

BODY:


ABSTRACT

X

FULL TEXT

DUBLIN >> A BART police officer accidentally shot to death by a colleague during
an apartment search last year was so concerned about his lack of training that
he asked his wife to sue the transit district if anything happened to him,
according to a federal lawsuit. Kelli Smith, widow of BART Detective Sergeant
Thomas "Tommy" Smith Jr., alleges that BART police chiefs routinely sent the
transit agency's officers into high-risk searches without the backup of a
trained SWAT - Special Weapons and Tactics - team.

BART's police leader also denied "training requests by BART detectives and
officers who were required to do the building ... searches" without the SWAT
team, according to a law firm's news release.

"Unfortunately, the lack of training ultimately led to Detective Sergeant
Smith's tragic death," said attorney Eustace de Saint Phalle.

"Not only did Tommy himself foresee and fear this outcome, but this catastrophe
could have been easily prevented and his life would have been saved," Saint
Phalle said in the news release.

In a letter sent Wednesday to BART directors and police managers, Kellie Smith,
herself a 20-year BART police veteran, said she had tried to confidentially
resolve her concerns after her husband's January 2014 death.

She said she had heard only "denials, a refusal to take responsibility, and a
refusal to make necessary changes for officer safety and public safety."

BART's attorney, Dana Fox, said Monday that the shooting occurred despite BART's
officers having had training that "far exceeded the standards required by (the
state Commisison on Police Officer Standards and Training), the governing agency
on police officer training in California."

"While BART has not received the lawsuit, the BART family continues to mourn the
loss of Sgt. Smith," Fox said in an email.

Kelli Smith said that she believes officers know that BART is trying to disband
its SWAT team and put more "high-risk tactical assignments on patrol officers
and detectives."

She also said in her letter that her husband was so concerned about the
department's refusal to provide training or send out the SWAT team that he asked
her to sue BART and Deputy Chief Ben Fairow "if anything happens to me.". The
complaint filed Friday specifically alleges that BART's police department, under
Chief Kenton Rainey and Fairow:

o Did not allow the use of trained SWAT officers for "potentially high-risk
building and probation searches" and

o Denied "training requests by BART detectives and officers" who had to do
building and probation searches without the assistance of BART SWAT.

Officer Tommy Smith, a San Ramon resident who headed BART's detective division,
was assigned to lead a team of eight officers to search the apartment of a
robbery suspect on Jan. 14, 2014.

Smith entered one door inside the one-bedroom apartment and emerged from another
in shadow, prompting a fellow officer to think he might be an armed suspect and
shoot him, according to the Alameda County District Attorney's Office report on
the killing.

The suit asks for an injunction to prevent BART from forcing employees into
tactical operations without having the necessary training and to force BART to
set training and policies for officer and public safety.

It also seeks compensation for Kellie Smith and her young daughter.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE
FORCES (89%); PROBATION (78%); LAWYERS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); MILITARY TRAINING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2015


                              68 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 2, 2015 Tuesday

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Slain BART officer's family sues, claims 'poor training'

BYLINE: By Andrew McGall amcgall@bayareanewsgroup.com

BODY:

DUBLIN -- A BART police officer accidentally shot to death by a colleague during
an apartment search last year was so concerned about his lack of training that
he asked his wife to sue the transit district if anything happened to him,
according to a federal lawsuit. Kellie Smith, widow of BART Detective Sgt.
Thomas "Tommy" Smith Jr., alleges that BART police chiefs routinely sent the
transit agency's officers into high-risk searches without the backup of a
trained SWAT -- Special Weapons and Tactics -- team.

BART's police leader also denied "training requests by BART detectives and
officers who were required to do the building ... searches" without the SWAT
team, according to a law firm's news release.

"Unfortunately, the lack of training ultimately led to Detective Sgt. Smith's
tragic death," said attorney Eustace de Saint Phalle.

"Not only did Tommy himself foresee and fear this outcome, but this catastrophe
could have been easily prevented and his life would have been saved," Saint
Phalle said in the news release.

In a letter sent Wednesday to BART directors and police managers, Kelliee Smith,
herself a 20-year BART police veteran, said she had tried to confidentially
resolve her concerns after her husband's January 2014 death.

She said she had heard only "denials, a refusal to take responsibility, and a
refusal to make necessary changes for officer safety and public safety."

BART attorney Dana Fox said Monday that the shooting occurred despite BART's
officers having had training that "far exceeded the standards required by (the
state Commisison on Police Officer Standards and Training), the governing agency
on police officer training in California."

"While BART has not received the lawsuit, the BART family continues to mourn the
loss of Sgt. Smith," Fox said in an email.

Kellie Smith said that she believes officers know that BART is trying to disband
its SWAT team and put more "high-risk tactical assignments on patrol officers
and detectives."

She also said in her letter that her husband was so concerned about the
department's refusal to provide training or send out the SWAT team that he asked
her to sue BART and deputy chief Ben Fairow "if anything happens to me." The
complaint, filed Friday, specifically alleges that BART's police department,
under Chief Kenton Rainey and Fairow:

Did not allow the use of trained SWAT officers for "potentially high-risk
building and probation searches."

Denied "training requests by BART detectives and officers" who had to do
building and probation searches without the assistance of BART SWAT.

Sgt. Tommy Smith, a San Ramon resident who headed BART's detective division, was
assigned to lead a team of eight officers to search the apartment of a robbery
suspect on Jan. 14, 2014.

Smith entered one door inside the one-bedroom apartment and emerged from another
in shadow, prompting a fellow officer to think he might be an armed suspect and
shoot him, according to the Alameda County District Attorney's Office report on
the killing.

The suit asks for an injunction to prevent BART from forcing employees into
tactical operations without having the necessary training and to force BART to
set training and policies for officer and public safety.

It also seeks compensation for Kellie Smith and her young daughter.

Contact Andrew McGall at 925-945-4703. Follow him at twitter.com/andrewmcgall .

GRAPHIC: Kelli Smith and her late husband, Thomas "Tommy" Smith Jr., in an
undated family photo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); PROBATION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAWYERS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); ROBBERY (70%); MILITARY TRAINING
(58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2015


                              69 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                         Copyright 2015 Greeley Tribune
                           Greeley Tribune (Colorado)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 3, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Woman who led Greeley police, other officers on high speed chase dies
at scene in Brighton

BYLINE: Joe Moylan, Greeley Tribune, Colo.

BODY:

June 03--A Mesa County woman suspected of fatally shooting her ex-husband died
Wednesday from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, but not before
leading Weld County authorities on an hour-long chase that ended in Brighton.

The chase began shortly after 10 a.m. when Greeley police attempted to contact
Barbara Ann Blanton-Marez, 39, of Grand Junction, in the 300 block of 35th
Avenue.

Weld County dispatchers received a message from the Mesa County Sheriff's Office
through the Colorado Criminal Information Center that Blanton-Marez was thought
to be in the Greeley area.

On Tuesday, Blanton-Marez was named a person of interest in Monday's suspicious
death of 50-year-old Lawrence Marez in his home in the 2900 block of Globe
Willow Avenue in Grand Junction. Blanton-Marez was listed as armed and dangerous
and possibly driving a stolen red 2007 Ford pickup.

Blanton-Marez also was wanted on a warrant for walking away from community
corrections May 29, according to the Mesa County Sheriff's Office.

She was serving a three-year sentence for a felony menacing conviction.

When Greeley police located Blanton-Marez and the red Ford pickup on 35th
Avenue, they attempted to pull her over, but she refused to yield. Instead,
Blanton-Marez led police north on 35th Avenue to O Street and then east on O to
U.S. 85. Blanton-Marez then sped south on the U.S. 85 Bypass toward Brighton.

The high-speed chase attracted the participation of the Weld County Sheriff's
Office and the Colorado State Patrol, as well as several smaller agencies south
of Greeley along the U.S. 85 corridor. Blanton-Marez exceeded speeds of 100 mph
and crossed over to the northbound lanes on numerous occasions, said Sgt. Joe
Tymkowych, spokesman for Greeley police. Officers attempted to stop
Blanton-Marez with tire spikes several times without success.

The one-hour chase ultimately came to an end at 11:05 a.m. in Brighton when
Blanton-Marez crashed into a police cruiser. It was unknown which agency was
involved in the crash and if there were any injuries to the officer as of
Wednesday afternoon, Tymkowych said. The chase contributed to one other crash,
which occurred near Evans on U.S. 85. There were no injuries reported in that
crash.

The crash in Brighton immobilized Blanton-Marez's vehicle. She elected to stay
inside the pickup as officers from several agencies surrounded her and waited
for SWAT to respond to the scene. Greeley Police used the armored vehicle to
approach the suspect vehicle. The woman was reported as armed and dangerous, and
she was seen with a weapon in her hand during the pursuit.

While she was surrounded, Blanton-Marez apparently raised a gun to her own head
and pulled the trigger, said Greeley Police Chief Jerry Garner.

Authorities closed U.S. 85 about 10:30 a.m. at Weld County Road 2 because of the
police activity. It remained closed much of the day. It was reopened just before
6 p.m., according to the Colorado Department of Transportation.

"I am very proud of the professionalism and restraint shown by our officers
during this dangerous incident," he said in a news release. "The situation could
have ended very badly, and I am so thankful that innocent persons were not
harmed by a highly dangerous suspect."

Blanton-Marez married Lawrence Marez in March 2014, according to reports by the
Grand Junction Daily Sentinel. Mesa County records showed the couple lived in
the 2900 block of Globe Willow Avenue. They later divorced.

Blanton-Marez also was arrested Aug. 6, 2013, by the Grand Junction Police
Department when her then-boyfriend reported being stabbed with a kitchen knife
multiple times in the back and on his arms after the couple argued for most of
the day at their apartment, according to the Sentinel.

A witness told the Sentinel a man was being stabbed as he tried to climb out a
bedroom window.

At the time, Blanton-Marez was five months pregnant with the man's child,
according to court records.

The District Attorney's Office eventually charged her with second-degree assault
causing serious injury, second-degree assault in the heat of passion, menacing
and tampering with physical evidence.

A public defender who represented Blanton-Marez described her in court records
as "probably having an IQ in the 70-80 range," while observing it was, "very
difficult for her to understand basic criminal justice concepts," the Sentinel
reported.

The Mesa County Coroner was conducting an autopsy on Lawrence Marez's body
Wednesday. A cause and manner of death had not been released as of Wednesday
afternoon.

The Greeley Police Department will conduct an investigation of the vehicle
pursuit, Tymkowych said. Colorado State Patrol is investigating the crash in
Brighton that brought the chase to an end, and Brighton police are investigating
the shooting. The cause and manner of Blanton-Marez's death will be released at
a later date by the Adams County Coroner's Office.

___ (c)2015 the Greeley Tribune (Greeley, Colo.) Visit the Greeley Tribune
(Greeley, Colo.) at www.greeleytribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GY

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%);
DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HEAD INJURIES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (78%); FELONIES (78%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (76%); JAIL SENTENCING
(75%); SENTENCING (75%); CORRECTIONS (75%); LARCENY & THEFT (75%); CRIMINAL
OFFENSES (75%); ARREST WARRANTS (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); ALTERNATIVE
SENTENCING (67%)

INDUSTRY: General

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND JUNCTION, CO, USA (93%) COLORADO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES
(93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2015


                              70 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved
                            The Star (South Africa)

                             June 30, 2015 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Quick Take

BODY:

THE GOVERNMENT says it has decided to appeal against the judgment in the high
court in Pretoria relating to Sudanese President Omar Al-Bashir. The Government
Communication and Information System said yesterday the reasons for the appeal
would appear in an affidavit that would be submitted within the prescribed due
date. This follows the International Criminal Court's call for the government to
fulfil its obligations to the Rome Statute by arresting the Sudanese president
after the court issued international warrants against him for human rights
violations in his country. Earlier this month, Bashir was in South Africa to
attend the 25th AU summit in Sandton. He left the country in contradiction of a
court order. - sanews.gov.za

Six people have died since the start of the initiation season in the Eastern
Cape, the provincial Health Department said yesterday. Department spokesman
Sizwe Kupelo said five of the deaths took place in the OR Tambo region over the
past week, while one boy died in the Chris Hani region. One boy from Port St
Johns had a septic penis and a swollen knee, while a 29-year-old initiate from
Qumbu was suspected to have died as a result of defaulting on his chronic
medication. "On the latest deaths, an 18-year-old died on the way to hospital on
Friday after a circumcision at an illegal school," said Kupelo. "The second man,
aged 22, died on Saturday." No arrests had been made. - ANA

THE man accused of raping a jogger just 2m from a busy road|in Howick,
KwaZulu-Natal, earlier this month has been identified by his victim in a police
identity parade. This was revealed in the Howick Magistrate's Court on Friday,
where the 25-year-old accused applied for bail. The man will hear on Friday
whether his bail application is successful. He is charged with the rape and
robbery of a 38-year-old Joburg woman who had been visiting her parents at the
time of the incident. She was raped in a roadside ditch less than 1km from her
family home. The man is also accused of robbing the woman of her watch,
tracksuit top and running shoes. - Sherlissa Peters

A MAN arrested for allegedly beating his two-year-old daughter to death is
accused of having locked the child's mother in a separate room while he
assaulted the toddler for about six hours. This is what the State will argue in
the case against Christopher Williams, 32, who is accused of killing Zoey
Petersen. Williams made his first appearance at the Athlone Magistrate's Court
in Cape Town yesterday. He faces a charge of murder and assault with intent to
do grievous bodily harm for allegedly beating Zoey's mother, Edwina Petersen.
Williams applied for a Legal Aid attorney to represent him. The matter was
postponed to July 21 for a formal bail application. - Natasha Prince

Two men were arrested for attempted robbery and possession of an unlicensed
firearm at Kwanobuhle in the Eastern Cape, police said yesterday. Police
spokeswoman Warrant Officer Gerda Swart said the incident occurred at about
9.30pm on Sunday. "Warrant Officer Jacobus Wyatt and Constable Wayne Menezes
responded to the assistance of a community member when two armed suspects
attempted to hijack his VW Polo," said Swart. They chased and apprehended the
men and seized an unlicensed 9mm firearm and rounds from the magazine. The two
suspects were due to appear in the Kwanobuhle Magistrate's Court today. - ANA

A gangster tried to hide drugs from cops in his rectum. The 34-year-old, who is
a member of the Mongrels gang, was nabbed on Friday in Cloete Street, Parow, in
Cape Town, during an operation carried out by the metro police's gang and drug
task team, K9 and Special Investigations Unit. While cops searched the man, they
found dagga, tik and heroin in his possession, and were surprised to find some
of the drugs hidden in his rectum. - Staff Reporter

THREE men arrested in connection with the fatal stabbing of Beerhouse doorman
Joe Kanyona have been charged with premeditated murder. Ubaid van der Bergh, 20,
from Zonnebloem, Toufiq Essa, 21, from Woodstock, and Nasbie Edwards, 27, from
Ruyterwacht, in Cape Town, made their first appearance in the Cape Town
Magistrate's Court yesterday. Kanyona, 32, a doorman for the drinking spot in
Long Street,|died on June 20 after he was attacked. Magistrate Joe Magele
postponed the matter to July 23. - Natasha Prince

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); MAGISTRATES (89%);
SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); ARRESTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); BAIL (78%);
LITIGATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW
(78%); MURDER (76%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); ARREST WARRANTS (76%);
HOMICIDE (76%); LAWYERS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); LEGAL AID (73%); INFANTS
& TODDLERS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); ROBBERY (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS
VIOLATIONS (55%)

PUB-SUBJECT: TheStar.News

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (58%)

PERSON: OMAR AL-BASHIR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRETORIA, SOUTH AFRICA (90%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (79%);
JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); SUDAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015


                              71 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                                 irishmirror.ie

                        May 24, 2015 Sunday 8:00 PM GMT

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Didcot murders: Jed Allen pictured smiling happily with newborn sister
as he's hunted over suspected killings;
Police have warned the public not to approach Jed after his sister Derin, mum
Janet and partner Philip Howard were found knifed to death

BYLINE: By Sam Rkaina

BODY:

Smiling happily with his newborn sister Jed Allen poses for a picture for the
family album.

Wearing a smart black shirt, Jed, then just a teenager, beams for the camera as
he gently holds little Derin.

Friends of the family commented under the picture "what a handsome fella!" and
Jed jokes back in a reply: "I look like a spoon, but Dez looks happy tho".

The picture was taken in February 2009 - six years before tragedy and horror was
to strike at the heart of the family.

The 21-year-old groundsman is being hunted by police after the bodies of his
mother, Jan Jordon, 48, her partner Philip Howard, 44, and his little sister
Derin, 6, were found inside their home in Vicarage Road, Didcot.

Police say all three are believed to have been knifed to death.

This evening officers released pictures of Janet and her daughter wearing a
princess outfit in tribute.

The image were met with message of grief from the public on Thames Valley Police
Facebook page.

One, Debbie Harris said: "God bless you all xxx Derrin you beautiful angel xx"

Another, Charley Lawson, said: "Rip u can be a princess forever little one xx"

Detectives with police dogs were today continuing the hunt for Janet's son Jed
in connection with the killings.

Cops have cordoned off an Oxford city centre park in connection with the deaths,
after putting out an appeal to trace him earlier today.

Teams of officers wearing riot gear were spotted moving into Oxford University
Parks this afternoon, and a forensic tent has been set up in the grounds of the
historic site.

Jed Allen Didcot murders: Live updates as police launch manhunt

Police have warned the public not to approach Allen, who was revealed on his
social media profiles to have a fascination with comic book characters like
X-Men's Wolverine.

On his Instagram page Allen has numerous pictures of the Marvel character along
with a Wolverine 21st birthday cake.

In one shot he poses with a makeshift version of the character's iconic,
razor-sharp claws and in another from 10 months ago, Allen can be seen showing
off a hunting-style knife approximately 10 inches long with the caption 'today's
purchases'.

Another picture of the same weapon has the caption 'you call that a knife' a
reference to the film Crocodile Dundee.

The former Oxford University groundsman's Instagram account is filled with
hundreds of pictures, with many featuring his distinctive tattoos.

Police alerted the public to keep an eye out for the spider on his left hand,
but he also appears to have a scorpion on his right and a bear on his chest.

His social media account shows a keen interest in comic book characters
including the violent vigilante The Punisher, and the Spiderman villain Venom.

Police launched the manhunt following the grim discovery after a member of the
public alerted cops.

Thames Valley Police say Allen has a distinctive spider tattoo on his left hand.

Police believe Allen is still in the area and have urged the public not to
approach him.

Investigating officer, Det Supt Chris Ward, head of the Thames Valley Police
Major Crime Unit, said: "The likely cause of deaths is stab wounds in relation
to the search for the suspect we are taking out a number of searches.

"Armed officers are assisting with that search.

"The suspect has a weapon."

Det Supt Ward said the searches are ongoing and intelligence led and that cops
are still looking for the Allen.

He urged anybody has any information "about happened in this road then we would
like them to come forward."

"Thames Valley Police is releasing an image of Jed Allen, aged 21, who is wanted
in connection with the murders," the detective continued.

"Police believe that Jed Allen is related to the victims.

"Thames Valley Police is releasing an image of a man wanted in connection with
three murders in Didcot yesterday (23/5).

"The image is of Jed Allen, aged 21. We believe that Jed Allen is related to the
victims and that this was a domestic incident."

"Jed is white, about 6ft, of stocky build, and has a distinctive tattoo of a
spider on his left hand," the spokesman added.

"If you see Jed please do not approach him, instead call 999 immediately.

"We would urge anyone with any other information 5756228 about the incident to
contact us via 101 quoting a new reference number of 465 (24/5).

"Did you see or hear anything suspicious in Vicarage Road yesterday? If you did
then we want to hear from you."

Important police appeal to hunt man with spider tattoo over triple murder at
house

If you don't want to speak directly to the police you can contact the
independent charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 or online at
www.crimestoppers-uk.org.

No personal details are taken, information is not traced or recorded and you
will not go to court.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (89%); FORENSICS (75%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); INTERNET
SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); DOGS (70%); HISTORIC SITES (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OXFORD, ENGLAND (76%) ENGLAND (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2015


                              72 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             May 21, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Non-fatal shooting of 14-year-old boy by Colton police justified, DA
says

BYLINE: Doug Saunders

BODY:

COLTON >> Officials deemed the non-fatal shooting of a 14-year-old boy by a
Colton police officer in 2012 was justified, the San Bernardino County District
Attorney s Office announced today.

Shortly before midnight on March 20 of that year, Officer Roberto Dimas fired
his weapon four times striking the boy in the foot, officials said.

The report said Dimas was dispatched to an apartment complex in the area of San
Bernardino Avenue and Sycamore Avenue in Colton for a fight involving five
people.

As Dimas was heading to the location, the call was updated saying the suspects
fighting were possibly armed with knives.

When Dimas arrived to his destination he watched the unnamed 14-year-old boy and
two adults Christian Palomares, 18, and Jimmy Alcazar, 19, both of Colton get
out of a car attacking a person walking on the sidewalk, the statement
continued.

Palomares grabbed the person on the sidewalk and pull a knife out from his
pants. Dimas jumped from his patrol car, drew his gun and ordered Palomares to
Stop right there.

With knife in hand Palomares moved toward Dimas causing the officers to be in
fear of his life, the report continued.

Dimas fired four rounds toward Palomares only striking the boy in the foot.

Two other men who were still inside the car later identified as Gonzalo Alcazar,
23, and Manuel Casas, 18, both of Colton were ordered out of the car and onto
the ground. Both complied.

Dimas found two knives on the ground.

One basis for the justification comes from a U.S. Supreme Court ruling,
according to the report.

That ruling, Tennessee v. Garner, says  Where an officer has probable cause to
believe that the suspect poses a threat of serious physical harm, either to the
officer or others, it is not constitutionally unreasonable to use deadly force
to prevent escape. If a suspect threatens an officer with a weapon, deadly force
may be used if necessary.

After the suspects were taken into custody, Dimas discovered that the boy had
been shot in the foot. He was taken to Arrowhead Regional Medical Center in
Colton where he was treated for the gunshot wound.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES
(68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); PROBABLE CAUSE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA,
UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2015


                              73 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                             May 21, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Non-fatal shooting of 14-year-old boy by Colton police justified, DA
says

BYLINE: Doug Saunders

BODY:

COLTON >> Officials deemed the non-fatal shooting of a 14-year-old boy by a
Colton police officer in 2012 was justified, the San Bernardino County District
Attorney s Office announced today.

Shortly before midnight on March 20 of that year, Officer Roberto Dimas fired
his weapon four times striking the boy in the foot, officials said.

The report said Dimas was dispatched to an apartment complex in the area of San
Bernardino Avenue and Sycamore Avenue in Colton for a fight involving five
people.

As Dimas was heading to the location, the call was updated saying the suspects
fighting were possibly armed with knives.

When Dimas arrived to his destination he watched the unnamed 14-year-old boy and
two adults Christian Palomares, 18, and Jimmy Alcazar, 19, both of Colton get
out of a car attacking a person walking on the sidewalk, the statement
continued.

Palomares grabbed the person on the sidewalk and pull a knife out from his
pants. Dimas jumped from his patrol car, drew his gun and ordered Palomares to
Stop right there.

With knife in hand Palomares moved toward Dimas causing the officers to be in
fear of his life, the report continued.

Dimas fired four rounds toward Palomares only striking the boy in the foot.

Two other men who were still inside the car later identified as Gonzalo Alcazar,
23, and Manuel Casas, 18, both of Colton were ordered out of the car and onto
the ground. Both complied.

Dimas found two knives on the ground.

One basis for the justification comes from a U.S. Supreme Court ruling,
according to the report.

That ruling, Tennessee v. Garner, says  Where an officer has probable cause to
believe that the suspect poses a threat of serious physical harm, either to the
officer or others, it is not constitutionally unreasonable to use deadly force
to prevent escape. If a suspect threatens an officer with a weapon, deadly force
may be used if necessary.

After the suspects were taken into custody, Dimas discovered that the boy had
been shot in the foot. He was taken to Arrowhead Regional Medical Center in
Colton where he was treated for the gunshot wound.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES
(68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); PROBABLE CAUSE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA,
UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2015


                              74 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               The Times (London)

                              May 25, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Hunt for son after murder of six-year-old girl and parents

BYLINE: Dominic Kennedy

BODY:

The University of Oxford's parkland was sealed off by armed police yesterday in
their hunt for a man wanted in connection with the murders of a couple and their
six-year-old daughter.

Jed Allen, 21, a former university groundsman, is the son of the dead woman, and
the killings are being blamed on a domestic incident.

Police released a photograph of Mr Allen, who has a tattoo of a tarantula
covering most of the back of his left hand and a scorpion on the right. His
chest has a tattoo of a bear. Police say people should not approach the suspect,
who is believed to be armed. Janet Jordon, 48, her daughter Derin and Philip
Howard, 44, were found dead in Vicarage Road, Didcot, 12 miles south of Oxford,
on Saturday night.

Ms Jordon's Facebook page is full of photographs of her family, including one of
Mr Allen holding his little sister.

Detective Superintendent Chris Ward, the head of the Thames Valley police's
major crime unit, said: "The likely cause of death is stab wounds. We are
carrying out a number of searches. Armed officers are assisting. The suspect has
a weapon."

Police were called to the redbrick town house at 8.23pm. The victims, who had
been living in it for only about two months, were pronounced dead after
ambulance staff arrived.

Oxford University Parks, a 70-acre area of parkland beside the Cherwell, was
closed yesterday. Armed officers with shields and dogs could be seen on the
lawns. A police officer guarded the locked gates.

Mr Allen's social media pages indicate that he is a fan of fantasy comics and
films. He has at times tried to adopt the look of Wolverine, a character from
X-Men, complete with a quiff, bushy sideburns and blades coming out of his
hands. His username on the Kik messaging service is WolverTooth. He wrote on
Facebook last summer: "Work's turned sour already. Fed up of being treated like
dirt. I quoted Batman."

He has uploaded a picture of himself at work holding an axe, and another of a
knife he bought, using the hashtag #crocodiledundee. A gym enthusiast, he has
used the nickname Mr Meat Tank. He recently uploaded the quotation: "Once you
have accepted your flaws, no one can use them against you."

Police were also searching for Mr Allen in Didcot.

Mr Ward said: "The first appeal is to look for a chap called Jed Allen - he is
now a suspect. He is ... 6ft tall, he is of large build but, distinctively, he
has a tattoo on his left hand of a spider.

"It is very important we locate him as quickly as possible. I don't believe
there is any danger to the wider community. If anyone sees him they should not
approach him. Anyone with information about him I am genuinely appealing for
them to contact us.

"We have officers actively looking for him at the moment. We know he has
connections with Oxfordshire. We have carried out inquiries last night at
addresses he might be. At this stage the families of the victims have been
informed and they are being looked after by specialist, trained officers."

Floral tributes began piling up at the murder scene. A yellow teddy bear was
placed inside the police cordon.

A handwritten tribute on a bunch of flowers said: "To my best friend, my soul
mate, Jan, Dezzy and my anorexic Phil and my gorgeous Jed. You are my family and
always will be. I will miss you all each day. You have all left a massive void
in my heart which will never be filled."

GRAPHIC: Jed Allen has tattoos of a spider and a scorpion on his hands and used
the name Mr Meat Tank on social mediaThe bodies of Janet and Derin Jordon were
discovered at their home in Didcot

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM

SUBJECT: MURDER (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%);
VIOLENT CRIME (78%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (77%); SELFIES (76%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES
(73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OXFORD, ENGLAND (58%) ENGLAND (58%) Scotland

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015


                              75 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Third teen charged in hammer killing of Bosnian immigrant in St. Louis

BYLINE:  By Joel Currier St. Louis Post-Dispatch

BODY:

ST. LOUIS o A third teenager has been charged in the hammer slaying of Bosnian
immigrant Zemir Begic in the city's Bevo Mill neighborhood.

Juan Carlos Fabian-Lutz, 16, was certified as an adult and charged Tuesday with
first-degree murder and armed criminal action.

He was ordered jailed in lieu of $1 million cash-only bail.

Police say that about 1:15 a.m. on Nov. 30, Fabian-Lutz and three other teens
exchanged words as Begic, his girlfriend and two other friends walked past them
and got in Begic's car parked near Gravois Avenue and Itaska Street.

Police said one of the teens jumped on the back of Begic's car and began hitting
it.

Begic then got out and exchanged more words with the teens.

He was attacked and struck with what police said was more than one hammer.

Darrian Johner, 16, of the 3500 block of Minnesota Avenue, was charged in
February in the fatal beating. Robert Mitchell, 17, turned himself in to police
less than 24 hours after the incident and has been charged with first-degree
murder and armed criminal action.

A fourth suspect identified in court records only as "T.K." has not been charged
in Begic's death.

Begic was killed amid elevated racial tension in the St. Louis area about a week
after a grand jury decided not to indict a white Ferguson police officer for
fatally shooting a unarmed black teenager. Some claimed that Begic was attacked
because he was Bosnian; the suspects are white, black and Hispanic, according to
authorities. Police said the investigation has not revealed a racial motive.

Fabian-Lutz lives in the 4100 block of Eichelberger Street.

Begic's youngest brother, Rasim Begic, 20, of Waterloo, Iowa, said he and his
family are hoping for justice.

"It's not easy looking at the pictures of the boys who killed my brother," he
said in an email.

"And I wish it never happened. We as a family miss him a lot. He will live
within us forever."

GRAPHIC:  Zemir Begic, 32, with his fiancée, Arijana. Begic was killed in a
hammer attack on Nov. 30, 2014.  Juan C. Fabian-Lutz  Darrian Johner, of St.
Louis, was charged with first-degree murder and armed criminal action.  Robert
Joseph Mitchell, of St. Louis, was charged with first-degree murder and armed
criminal action in the death of Zemir Begic.  "I am scared to come here anymore,
" said Rasema Mujkanovic, who rearranges some of the teddy bears at the memorial
for Zemir Begic on Friday, Dec. 5, 2014, in St. Louis. . "I am so glad we moved
to the county. The city is not safe here anymore," said Mujkanovic. Begic was
was bludgeoned to death with a hammer on Sunday by a group teenagers. Photo by
Laurie Skrivan, lskrivan@post-dispatch.com  Bosnians march along Gravois Road on
Monday, Dec. 1, 2014 to protest the murder of Zemir Begic in St. Louis. Police
blocked traffic as hundreds of people marched from Holly Hills Avenue down
Gravois Road to Itaska Street where Begic was killed. Photo By David Carson,
dcarson@post-dispatch.com  Bosnians march along Gravois Road on Monday, Dec. 1,
2014 to protest the murder of Zemir Begic in St. Louis. Police blocked traffic
as hundreds of people marched from Holly Hills Avenue down Gravois Road to
Itaska Street where Begic was killed. Photo By David Carson,
dcarson@post-dispatch.com  A growing memorial to Zemir Begic as seen on Monday,
Dec. 1, 2014. Photo By David Carson, dcarson@post-dispatch.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%);
AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); INDICTMENTS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS
(77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SHOOTINGS (73%);
CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); MICHAEL BROWN SHOOTING
(70%)

PUB-SUBJECT: zemir begic; #htop; bevo mill; hammer attack; juan carlos
fabianlutz; darrian johner; robert mitchell; ferguson; michael brown; #cp; juan
fabianlutz

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015


                              76 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Deadly force by US police compounds global disdain

BYLINE: The Nation

BODY:

Statistics show that America's racial issues aren't going away

In a report citing the kind of troubling figures that, had they applied to most
other countries, might have prompted warnings of necessary foreign intervention,
the Washington Post notes at least 385 people â[#x20ac]" ranging in age from 16
to 83 â[#x20ac]" have died at the hands of police across the United States this
year. One in six of those victims was unarmed, it said, and most were black or
Hispanic. And less than 1 per cent of the police officers involved in the cases
were charged with any criminal offence.

The United States is a populous country, so fatality rates in upholding the law
are apt to be relatively high. Regardless, a growing number of Americans are
alarmed at the statistics piling up this year. The Washington Post reported that
police have been directly or indirectly involved in the deaths of a daily
average of 2.6 people thus far in 2015.

The FBI, however, says the figure is actually 1.1 deaths a day, based on
statistics over the past decade showing 400 fatal police shootings a year.

However the fatalities are tallied, the only "good news" is that American
democracy prevents such numbers from being swept under the carpet.

On the contrary, the rising body count is routinely reported, and police
killings of unarmed citizens have sparked demonstrations â[#x20ac]" and riots
â[#x20ac]" in several towns and cities. Excessive use of force by the police,
especially against minorities, has tarnished the American justice system.

High-profile figures have gone on record as saying there is a major flaw and it
needs to be addressed.

At the same time there is growing suspicion that we have yet to understand the
true magnitude of the problem.

African Americans are attempting to address the issue by various means,
including a global #124online campaign that carries #124the social-media hashtag
"#BlackLivesMatter". The racist undertones of the killings are clear enough:
two-thirds of the unarmed citizens who have died by police hands were either
African American or Hispanic, even though it should be noted that the overall
count for both armed and unarmed victims is virtually equally divided between
Caucasians and minority groups.

For the moment we are left with the troubling spectacle of American diplomats
around the world promoting the right to vote, when in their own country citizens
are being denied the presumption of innocence unless found guilty in court, a
fundamental right of the US Constitution.

The world is prepared to admire "the American dream" and appreciates the many
benefits and opportunities shared by the US, but we are also seeing a country
that has never truly embraced the equality espoused by its founding fathers.

True democracy protects the innocent, regardless of race or creed, and doesn't
presume guilt. It ensures that everyone has the same chances in life.

The family and friends of the innocents killed by police will care little now
for American military or technological might.

The system has let them down in a way that could have been easily avoided had
genuine democratic principles been securely in place.

The cracks in American democracy will hopefully grow no bigger, but attempts to
paper them over â[#x20ac]" for example by diverting public attention to imagined
or perceived threats from overseas â[#x20ac]" threaten the country's future in a
far direr manner than any jihadists or military rivals.

Dissent will only fester and an explosion will be inevitable. Beyond America's
borders, its innate hypocrisy is already the subject of disdain and ridicule.
These internal and external forces must not be allowed to combine and undermine
all the good that the US claims to stand for and stand up for.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); STATISTICS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%);
AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); RACISM &
XENOPHOBIA (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); RIOTS (71%); SHOOTINGS (71%);
SOCIAL MEDIA (66%); VERDICTS (62%)

COMPANY: NASH HOLDINGS LLC (56%); GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS:
PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120
PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2015


                              77 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Deadly force by US police compounds global disdain

BYLINE: The Nation

BODY:

Statistics show that America's racial issues aren't going away

In a report citing the kind of troubling figures that, had they applied to most
other countries, might have prompted warnings of necessary foreign intervention,
the Washington Post notes at least 385 people â[#x20ac]" ranging in age from 16
to 83 â[#x20ac]" have died at the hands of police across the United States this
year. One in six of those victims was unarmed, it said, and most were black or
Hispanic. And less than 1 per cent of the police officers involved in the cases
were charged with any criminal offence.

The United States is a populous country, so fatality rates in upholding the law
are apt to be relatively high. Regardless, a growing number of Americans are
alarmed at the statistics piling up this year. The Washington Post reported that
police have been directly or indirectly involved in the deaths of a daily
average of 2.6 people thus far in 2015.

The FBI, however, says the figure is actually 1.1 deaths a day, based on
statistics over the past decade showing 400 fatal police shootings a year.

However the fatalities are tallied, the only "good news" is that American
democracy prevents such numbers from being swept under the carpet.

On the contrary, the rising body count is routinely reported, and police
killings of unarmed citizens have sparked demonstrations â[#x20ac]" and riots
â[#x20ac]" in several towns and cities. Excessive use of force by the police,
especially against minorities, has tarnished the American justice system.

High-profile figures have gone on record as saying there is a major flaw and it
needs to be addressed.

At the same time there is growing suspicion that we have yet to understand the
true magnitude of the problem.

African Americans are attempting to address the issue by various means,
including a global #124online campaign that carries #124the social-media hashtag
"#BlackLivesMatter". The racist undertones of the killings are clear enough:
two-thirds of the unarmed citizens who have died by police hands were either
African American or Hispanic, even though it should be noted that the overall
count for both armed and unarmed victims is virtually equally divided between
Caucasians and minority groups.

For the moment we are left with the troubling spectacle of American diplomats
around the world promoting the right to vote, when in their own country citizens
are being denied the presumption of innocence unless found guilty in court, a
fundamental right of the US Constitution.

The world is prepared to admire "the American dream" and appreciates the many
benefits and opportunities shared by the US, but we are also seeing a country
that has never truly embraced the equality espoused by its founding fathers.

True democracy protects the innocent, regardless of race or creed, and doesn't
presume guilt. It ensures that everyone has the same chances in life.

The family and friends of the innocents killed by police will care little now
for American military or technological might.

The system has let them down in a way that could have been easily avoided had
genuine democratic principles been securely in place.

The cracks in American democracy will hopefully grow no bigger, but attempts to
paper them over â[#x20ac]" for example by diverting public attention to imagined
or perceived threats from overseas â[#x20ac]" threaten the country's future in a
far direr manner than any jihadists or military rivals.

Dissent will only fester and an explosion will be inevitable. Beyond America's
borders, its innate hypocrisy is already the subject of disdain and ridicule.
These internal and external forces must not be allowed to combine and undermine
all the good that the US claims to stand for and stand up for.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); STATISTICS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%);
AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); RACISM &
XENOPHOBIA (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); RIOTS (71%); SHOOTINGS (71%);
SOCIAL MEDIA (66%); VERDICTS (62%)

COMPANY: NASH HOLDINGS LLC (56%); GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS:
PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120
PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015


                              78 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2015 The Fayetteville Observer
            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 19, 2015 Tuesday

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Police expert says Fayetteville shooting captured by leaked video was
justified

BYLINE: Paul Woolverton, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

BODY:

May 19--A former police chief who teaches at the John Jay College of Criminal
Justice in New York thinks a Fayetteville police officer acted appropriately
when he shot and killed Nijza Lamar Hagans in January 2013.

Separately, lawyers for the city of Fayetteville on Monday ended their effort in
federal court to keep secret from the public a video of the shooting following
its publication last week by The Intercept online news website and other media
outlets, including the Observer. The person who leaked the video has not been
identified.

Hagans' father Reggie Hagans has filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the city
over Nijza's death.

Officer Aaron Lee Hunt, who is American Indian, shot and killed 22-year-old
Nijza Hagans, who is black, during a traffic stop in a residential driveway off
South Virginia Avenue of Morganton Road. Hagans had a gun poking out of his
pocket, Hunt said afterward, and appeared to reach for it before pushing the
car's door into Hunt and jumping out.

Hunt fired three times at Hagans' front as Hagans came out of the Ford SUV and
rushed past him, the video shows. He fired two more times at Hagans' back as
Hagans tried to run away. Autopsy evidence appears to show he was hit twice from
the front and twice in the back.

"Once a person is armed ... then he is immediately a threat, and poses a deadly
threat to life and limb of the officer," said Associate Professor John DeCarlo
of the Department of Law, Police Science and Criminal Justice Administration at
John Jay. DeCarlo watched the video of the shooting.

When Hagans pushed the car door into Hunt and moved out of the car toward Hunt,
DeCarlo said, Hunt couldn't know if Hagans intended to shoot him, fight him or
run away, "but we know that he has a gun and the outcome couldn't possibly be
good. So the officer is not required to get shot at in order to take action."

Under North Carolina law and federal court rulings, the shots to Hagans back are
permissible, DeCarlo said.

"It's a shame that anyone has to lose their life over a traffic stop," he said.
"However, the totality of the circumstances clearly say that he remains an armed
suspect, still able to turn around and shoot you, even though he's running
away."

DeCarlo is a former chief of police in Branford, Conn.

The lawsuit contends the traffic stop was illegal, conducted as a pretext to
search Hagans' vehicle as part of a pattern of racially motivated traffic stops
by Fayetteville police officers.

"At no time during his encounter with Defendant Hunt did Nijza Lamar Hagans
point, hold, brandish, reach for, display, or otherwise use or threaten to use a
weapon of any kind," the suit says.

The city was trying to keep the video of the shooting from being made public.
State law allows police departments to keep from the public videos such as this
one, made by camera on the dashboard of Hunt's police cruiser. It says in court
papers that in lawsuits such as this, normally it obtains a court order telling
plaintiffs' lawyers, such as Billy Richardson and Chuk Umerah in Hagans' case,
they must not share the video with anyone. But the city failed to do that this
time.

After the city's lawyers realized this, they requested that the video and other
items be returned by Richardson and Umerah. The city followed up with by filing
a motion to ask a judge to make Richardson and Umerah give up the materials. In
court papers, the city's lawyers contend that Richardson and Umerah were obliged
to keep the video and four other items of evidence secret until the judge made a
decision on the matter.

The paperwork also says that Richardson proposed an out-of-court settlement in
which the video would be kept secret.

Richardson, in papers filed last week, counters that the video and other
materials weren't required to be kept secret and the city's lawyers waived their
option to keep the video privileged from public dissemination.

With the publication of the video last week, the city's lawyers conceded that
their request is now moot.

Jimmie Buxton, head of the Fayetteville branch of the NAACP, viewed the video
last week.

The organization has been outspoken in cases in which it thinks police officers
were wrong in police shootings. But in this case, Buxton said, the organization
is withholding comment while the lawsuit is pending.

"I just suggest that anybody that's interested, needs to see the full tape and
hear the sound" of when the shots were fired, Buxton said. Staff writer Paul
Woolverton can be reached at woolvertonp@fayobserver.com, in Raleigh at
919-828-7641 or in Fayetteville at 910-486-3512.

___ (c)2015 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The
Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES
(90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW
COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS
(76%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (76%); LAWYERS (74%); SPORT UTILITY
VEHICLES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); AUTOPSIES (72%)

INDUSTRY: General

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA
(51%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2015


                              79 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved
                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                              June 14, 2015 Sunday

LENGTH: 305  words

HEADLINE: Police kill drug suspect armed with grenade

BODY:

 Police killed a drug trader wanted on multiple charges on Sunday in Muang
district after he resisted arrest by trying to attack police with a hand
grenade.

Pol Sub Lt Sathit Samosorn, a duty officer at Muang Surat Thani police station,
and a colleague were patrolling when they came across a man and a teenage woman
having a heated argument in front of Rin Thong housing estate.

When the officers approached the pair, the man, identified later as Sanit
Chantana, 39, who appeared to be under the influence of drugs, held out a
grenade to threaten them, then hijacked a passing pickup truck and sped off.

Pol Sub Lt Sathit radioed other officers to intercept the armed suspect.

Sanit abandoned the truck in an alley in Makham Tia sub-district after he was
shot in the back by officers who were pursuing him and went into hiding in a
pond in a forested area.

About 50 policemen surrounded the pond and urged him to surrender. Sanit agreed
to come out of the pond after more than an hour. Police ordered him to keep his
hands in the air and turn around.

The suspect initially kept his hands on his head but then grabbed the grenade
from under the water and tried to pull the safety pin when officers approached.

Other officers immediately opened fire.

Pol Col Wisut Poopansri, chief of Muang Surat Thani police station, described
the explosive device as an anti-personnel grenade with a destructive radius of
15 metres.

Surat Thani police chief Pol Maj Gen Apichart Boonsriroj said Sanit was wanted
on several drugs warrants issued in the province. He had previously fought with
an anti-drug police unit who tried to catch him when he was using firearms and
grenades.

The suspect was a henchman of Jaknarin Chankomol, 29, leader of a major drug
gang in Surat Thani who was killed by police in June last year, Pol Maj Gen
Apichart said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%);
MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%);
ARRESTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); ARREST WARRANTS (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(79%); HIJACKING (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); GANGS
(63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SURAT THANI

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2015


                              80 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                                US Official News

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday

LENGTH: 557  words

HEADLINE: WASHINGTON:SIRR Team Activated for In-Custody Death

DATELINE: Spokane

BODY:

 City of Spokane, The State of Washington issued the following news release:

The critical incident protocol has been invoked and the Spokane Investigative
Regional Response (SIRR) Team is investigating an in-custody death that occurred
this morning. Officers from the Spokane Police Department arrested the suspect
this morning after being called to the 5400 block of N. Addison for a domestic
violence call where the suspect was allegedly armed with a rifle. The suspect
was transported to jail and later suffered a medical emergency. He immediately
received life-saving medical attention, but later died at a local hospital.

Today, 05/13/2015, just before 6:00am, patrol officers from SPD responded to the
5400 block of N. Addison on the report of domestic violence. Information from
the complainant was that a female and male were arguing and the male had
possibly hidden a gun on the side of the residence. Officers were able to
determine there was a domestic violence no-contact order in place and the
suspect was in violation of that order. The order made it illegal for him to
possess firearms. Officers took the suspect into custody without incident and
located a firearm at the residence. They also noted that the suspect appeared to
be "high". He was talking with officers prior to the transport and admitted to
"drinking something".

The suspect was transported to Spokane County Jail to be booked for Unlawful
Possession of Firearm and Felony Violation of a Domestic Violence No Contact
Order, which under Washington law is a mandatory booking. While in route to
jail, he began kicking on the back of the patrol car. Officers notified jail
staff to prepare for an uncooperative male. Jail staff met the patrol car in the
sally port, where the suspect was uncooperative. Jail staff escorted the
suspect, still handcuffed, into the booking area. Because he continued to be
uncooperative, jail staff prepared to place him in a restraint chair to keep him
from hurting himself or others. During that process, he had a medical emergency.

Resuscitation efforts were started immediately by correction officers. Jail
medical staff and Spokane City Fire medics were called to assist. At the time he
was transported to the hospital, the suspect did have a pulse. Later, at the
hospital, he was declared deceased.

This is preliminary information based on initial reports of the incident.

This is an ongoing investigation.

This continues to be an active and ongoing investigation. SIRR Team detectives
will continue to process evidence, including video from the jail, interview
witnesses and interview all the officers involved with this incident.

The SIRR Team is comprised of multiple agencies in Eastern Washington, including
the Spokane County Sheriff's Office, Washington State Patrol, Spokane Police
Department, and Airway Heights Police Department.

The Spokane County Medical Examiner will release the name of the deceased
individual as well as the official cause of death.

The Washington State Patrol is the managing agency in this incident. All future
communications on this incident will be sent via the SIRR Team. Once the SIRR
Team investigation is complete, the case will be forwarded to the Spokane County
Prosecutor's Office for review.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:
editorial@plusme.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

PUB-SUBJECT: National

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015


                              81 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                                US Official News

                             May 16, 2015 Saturday

LENGTH: 557  words

HEADLINE: WASHINGTON:SIRR Team Activated for In-Custody Death

DATELINE: Spokane

BODY:

 City of Spokane, The State of Washington issued the following news release:

The critical incident protocol has been invoked and the Spokane Investigative
Regional Response (SIRR) Team is investigating an in-custody death that occurred
this morning. Officers from the Spokane Police Department arrested the suspect
this morning after being called to the 5400 block of N. Addison for a domestic
violence call where the suspect was allegedly armed with a rifle. The suspect
was transported to jail and later suffered a medical emergency. He immediately
received life-saving medical attention, but later died at a local hospital.

Today, 05/13/2015, just before 6:00am, patrol officers from SPD responded to the
5400 block of N. Addison on the report of domestic violence. Information from
the complainant was that a female and male were arguing and the male had
possibly hidden a gun on the side of the residence. Officers were able to
determine there was a domestic violence no-contact order in place and the
suspect was in violation of that order. The order made it illegal for him to
possess firearms. Officers took the suspect into custody without incident and
located a firearm at the residence. They also noted that the suspect appeared to
be "high". He was talking with officers prior to the transport and admitted to
"drinking something".

The suspect was transported to Spokane County Jail to be booked for Unlawful
Possession of Firearm and Felony Violation of a Domestic Violence No Contact
Order, which under Washington law is a mandatory booking. While in route to
jail, he began kicking on the back of the patrol car. Officers notified jail
staff to prepare for an uncooperative male. Jail staff met the patrol car in the
sally port, where the suspect was uncooperative. Jail staff escorted the
suspect, still handcuffed, into the booking area. Because he continued to be
uncooperative, jail staff prepared to place him in a restraint chair to keep him
from hurting himself or others. During that process, he had a medical emergency.

Resuscitation efforts were started immediately by correction officers. Jail
medical staff and Spokane City Fire medics were called to assist. At the time he
was transported to the hospital, the suspect did have a pulse. Later, at the
hospital, he was declared deceased.

This is preliminary information based on initial reports of the incident.

This is an ongoing investigation.

This continues to be an active and ongoing investigation. SIRR Team detectives
will continue to process evidence, including video from the jail, interview
witnesses and interview all the officers involved with this incident.

The SIRR Team is comprised of multiple agencies in Eastern Washington, including
the Spokane County Sheriff's Office, Washington State Patrol, Spokane Police
Department, and Airway Heights Police Department.

The Spokane County Medical Examiner will release the name of the deceased
individual as well as the official cause of death.

The Washington State Patrol is the managing agency in this incident. All future
communications on this incident will be sent via the SIRR Team. Once the SIRR
Team investigation is complete, the case will be forwarded to the Spokane County
Prosecutor's Office for review.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:
editorial@plusme.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

PUB-SUBJECT: National

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2015


                              82 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                                US Official News

                             May 16, 2015 Saturday

LENGTH: 557  words

HEADLINE: WASHINGTON:SIRR Team Activated for In-Custody Death

DATELINE: Spokane

BODY:

 City of Spokane, The State of Washington issued the following news release:

The critical incident protocol has been invoked and the Spokane Investigative
Regional Response (SIRR) Team is investigating an in-custody death that occurred
this morning. Officers from the Spokane Police Department arrested the suspect
this morning after being called to the 5400 block of N. Addison for a domestic
violence call where the suspect was allegedly armed with a rifle. The suspect
was transported to jail and later suffered a medical emergency. He immediately
received life-saving medical attention, but later died at a local hospital.

Today, 05/13/2015, just before 6:00am, patrol officers from SPD responded to the
5400 block of N. Addison on the report of domestic violence. Information from
the complainant was that a female and male were arguing and the male had
possibly hidden a gun on the side of the residence. Officers were able to
determine there was a domestic violence no-contact order in place and the
suspect was in violation of that order. The order made it illegal for him to
possess firearms. Officers took the suspect into custody without incident and
located a firearm at the residence. They also noted that the suspect appeared to
be "high". He was talking with officers prior to the transport and admitted to
"drinking something".

The suspect was transported to Spokane County Jail to be booked for Unlawful
Possession of Firearm and Felony Violation of a Domestic Violence No Contact
Order, which under Washington law is a mandatory booking. While in route to
jail, he began kicking on the back of the patrol car. Officers notified jail
staff to prepare for an uncooperative male. Jail staff met the patrol car in the
sally port, where the suspect was uncooperative. Jail staff escorted the
suspect, still handcuffed, into the booking area. Because he continued to be
uncooperative, jail staff prepared to place him in a restraint chair to keep him
from hurting himself or others. During that process, he had a medical emergency.

Resuscitation efforts were started immediately by correction officers. Jail
medical staff and Spokane City Fire medics were called to assist. At the time he
was transported to the hospital, the suspect did have a pulse. Later, at the
hospital, he was declared deceased.

This is preliminary information based on initial reports of the incident.

This is an ongoing investigation.

This continues to be an active and ongoing investigation. SIRR Team detectives
will continue to process evidence, including video from the jail, interview
witnesses and interview all the officers involved with this incident.

The SIRR Team is comprised of multiple agencies in Eastern Washington, including
the Spokane County Sheriff's Office, Washington State Patrol, Spokane Police
Department, and Airway Heights Police Department.

The Spokane County Medical Examiner will release the name of the deceased
individual as well as the official cause of death.

The Washington State Patrol is the managing agency in this incident. All future
communications on this incident will be sent via the SIRR Team. Once the SIRR
Team investigation is complete, the case will be forwarded to the Spokane County
Prosecutor's Office for review.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:
editorial@plusme.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

PUB-SUBJECT: National

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2015


                              83 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 2015 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                              May 29, 2015 Friday
                                 METRO EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: public safety briefing

BYLINE: NICOLE NORFLEET; DAVID CHANEN; TIM HARLOW; PAUL WALSH; KAREN ZAMORA;
STAFF WRITERS, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)



HIGHLIGHT: Mpls. settles suit by ex-captains

 BODY:

The city of Minneapolis has reached a nearly $63,000 settlement with a group of
former police captains who sued Chief Janeé Harteau, claiming she pushed for
their retirement and later reassigned them to inferior positions. After Harteau
became chief in 2012, she made clear her intent to enforce the previously
negotiated elimination of the captain rank and spoke publicly about her desire
for older employees to retire. The captain positions were replaced with five
"commander" slots that gave her the ability to appoint whomever she wanted,
according to the lawsuit filed in Hennepin County District Court last fall. None
of the former captains was selected as a commander, and all were slated for
demotion to lieutenant if they did not retire.

NICOLE NORFLEET AND DAVID CHANEN

2 arrested in carjacking, chase

Police say four suspects kidnapped and threatened a disabled veteran during an
armed carjacking that ended with one suspect being shot by police Thursday in
north Minneapolis. Officers were called to 21st and Bryant Avenues N. around 4
a.m. on reports of a kidnapping, said spokesman John Elder. Earlier, a resident
was reportedly carjacked near 12th and Knox Avenues N. and forced into his
vehicle.

Officers spotted the victim's car, and during a foot chase, police fired and
struck one of the suspects, who was believed to be armed, authorities said. Two
suspects were arrested, including the one who was shot, police said. Police are
searching for the other two assailants.

TIM HARLOW

Autopsy: Drowned woman drunk

A Stillwater woman who disappeared in late April, setting off a search that
ended with her body being found May 2 in the St. Croix River, was extremely
intoxicated at the time of her death, authorities said Thursday. Abbey Kae
Russell, 24, died from freshwater drowning, and no foul play is suspected,
according to the Ramsey County medical examiner's office. Test results showed
Russell had a blood alcohol content of 0.336 percent, more than four times the
legal limit for driving in Minnesota.

PAUL WALSH

Clown player facing sex charges

A 57-year-old man known in Princeton, Minn., as "Friendly" the clown has been
charged with sexually assaulting a 20-year-old woman with mental difficulties
numerous times. Robert J. Jensen, of Princeton, is scheduled to appear in court
next week on three counts of third-degree criminal sexual assault and three
counts of fourth-degree criminal sexual conduct. Jensen remains held in the
Mille Lacs County jail.

PAUL WALSH

Man gets 5 years for tax evasion

A Twin Cities health care products entrepreneur and longtime tax protester has
been sentenced to five years in prison for running up a bill of more than
$600,000 in back taxes, interest and penalties. The sentencing of Michael A.
Schlegel, 56, of Corcoran, in federal court in Minneapolis last week follows his
conviction by a jury on three counts of tax evasion, three counts of failing to
file tax returns and conspiracy to defraud the federal government. No
restitution was ordered by Judge Patrick Schiltz as part of the sentence, but
Schlegel remains liable to the IRS.

PAUL WALSH

Ex-cop given longer sentence

A former Minneapolis police officer who lured adolescent girls into sexual
encounters via social media was resentenced Thursday in Anoka County District
Court after the Minnesota Court of Appeals overturned a previous
lighter-than-recommended sentence. Bradley Schnickel, 34, was sentenced to 102
months in prison, taking into account good behavior and time served, meaning he
has 32 more months to serve for five felonies that he pleaded guilty to in May
2014. Originally, he was to have been released in June.

KAREN ZAMORA

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); CARJACKING (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%);
LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); TAX LAW
(89%); SENTENCING (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%);
SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); CORRECTIONS (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); TAXES & TAXATION
(88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS
(78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); ARRESTS (78%); FINES
& PENALTIES (77%); ELDER LAW (77%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING
(75%); EVIDENCE (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); VERDICTS (75%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); OLDER WORKERS (72%); AUTOPSIES
(69%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (64%); HEALTH CARE (62%)

PUB-SUBJECT: YOUTH; SENTENCE; ROBBERY; VEHICLE; MINNEAPOLIS; POLICE; LAWSUIT;
SEX CRIME; FRAUD

PERSON: PAUL WALSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2015


                              84 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved
                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                              May 25, 2015 Monday
                                   E1 Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Hostel residents accuse cops after fatal shooting

BYLINE:  TANKISO MAKHETHA

BODY:

A MAN was shot and killed in the Mamelodi West Hostels - allegedly by a police
officer - on Saturday evening.

Class Modibe was killed as he was walking along a passage in the hostel while
police were apparently conducting a crime prevention operation.

Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini refuted the claim, saying
the incident occurred when an armed man tried to free detained suspects during
the operation.

"When police confronted him a shoot-out ensued and a bystander was fatally
shot," Dlamini said.

However, this is in contrast to what hostel dwellers said.

They accused the police of lying and claim the shooting was a result of an
extortion gone wrong.

Zizi Selala said Modibe was shot after a police officer failed to solicit a
bribe from him.

Selala, who regularly plays dice at the hostel, said they were harassed daily by
police officers.

"When the police came on Saturday I ran away because they had just taken money
from me the previous day," said Selala.

"Then they started shooting at me and that's when they shot Class because I was
running in his direction.

"The officer started shooting randomly at some point because I was already out
of his vision," he said.

Selala said it had become a nightmare living at the hostel because of the
constant harassment they experienced.

"Police always come here and demand money for one thing or another.

"If you don't give them they arrest you on a bogus charge. I was tired of it and
decided I was going to run away this time," Selala said.

Chairman of the hostel residents' association Daniel Sello said it was
regrettable that a life had been lost at the hands of law enforcers.

"It's always a struggle.

"Those guys just play their dice and do not bother anyone but the police are
always harassing them," he said.

Dlamini said police were investigating a case of murder but no arrests had been
made.

"The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) has opened a case on
the shooting.

Ipid spokesman Moses Dlamini was not available for comment yesterday.

l In his State of the City Address, mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa said the city was
exploring turning the hostels into bachelor units, rather than family units as
had originally been planned because this would be more affordable to those
living there who were unemployed or working in the informal sector.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MURDER
(78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BRIBERY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); POLICE
MISCONDUCT (78%); EXTORTION (77%); CRIME PREVENTION (72%); FAMILY (63%)

PUB-SUBJECT: PretoriaNews.News

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2015


                              85 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved
                                Scottish Express

                              May 25, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Police hunt knifeman after couple and girl, 6, found hacked to death

BYLINE: John Twomey

BODY:

A TATTOOED murder suspect was being hunted in the historic grounds of Oxford
University yesterday after his six-year-old sister, his mother and her partner
were hacked to death.

Armed police shut down 70 acres of picturesque parkland as they searched for
knife-obsessed Jed Allen, 21.

The former college groundsman has an intimate knowledge of the parkland, used by
cricket and rugby teams as well as rowing squads.

Detectives named him as a suspect after the mutilated bodies of the girl and the
couple were found at a house on Saturday night.

The victims were named as Philip Howard, 44, Jan Jordon, 48, and her daughter
Derin.

Police said Allen is related to them but it later became clear he is Ms Jordon's
son.

Anyone who spots Allen is urged not to approach him but to dial 999 immediately.

The stocky six-footer, who often wears a baseball cap, has several tattoos
including one of a large, black spider on his left hand.

Detective Superintendent Chris Ward, from Thames Valley Police's Major Crime
Unit, said: "It is very important that we locate him as quickly as we can."

Police closed the 70-acre University Parks, south of the city centre on the
banks of the Thames, or Isis as it is called in Oxford.

Traumatic Marksmen along with a squad of 20 officers with dogs and riot shields
moved through the parks yesterday afternoon. Part of the search centred on a
pavilion.

The police appeared to be focusing on the north-east of the parks close to where
the River Cherwell flows into the Thames. Police warned passing tourists that
the parks would be shut all day.

"There are a large number of officers who have been deployed to find the suspect
," said Mr Ward.

Armed police were drafted in for the safety of the searching officers and there
was no suggestion Allen had a gun, he added.

The alert for Allen was issued after police found the bodies of the victims in a
house in a quiet street in Didcot, 13 miles south of Oxford, at about 8.20pm on
Saturday.

Officers went to the property after a call from a neighbour, police said.

Post mortem examinations are due to be carried out today but Mr Ward said: "The
likely cause of each of their deaths is stab wounds."

Allen appears to have a fascination with knives. He posted several photographs
of himself on social media wielding various vicious-looking knives and an axe.

He also posed as the comic superhero Wolverine holding three clawlike blades
between the fingers of each hand.

Allen, who has bushy side burns, seems to have modelled himself on the Wolverine
character played by Hugh Jackman in the X-Men series of films.

It is understood the couple and Derin moved to the house in Didcot a few months
ago.

Before that, they lived for many years in a house just over a mile away, where
Allen was regularly seen, according to neighbours. Sheila Welch, a neighbour in
Didcot, said yesterday that the couple and child always looked "happy". Ms Welch
said: "They are new neighbours and had only been here a couple of months.

"I used to see them - a lovely mother and a little girl. They always looked so
happy."

Describing the scene when police turned up on Saturday night, Ms Welch said: "It
was about half past eight and there were just sirens and police cars. All I can
say is that I am very upset, it is all very traumatic."

A neighbour at the couple's former home said: "The little girl was always on her
bike with her mum. "She was really nice, she used to smile and say hello when
she saw you in the street."

Another ex-neighbour told how they moved away suddenly. She said: "One day they
were gone. We didn't see any removal van until the new neighbours moved in."

Several addresses linked to Allen were visited by police yesterday.

Forensic experts examined the murder scene. The bodies of the three victims were
not moved until about 4.30pm.

Toys and flowers were left at the scene. Ms Jordan and Mr Howard had children by
previous relationships who were being looked after by specialist, trained
officers.

Mr Ward said: "We offer our condolences to the family. This is obviously a
tragic and sad event." Allen attended the Marlborough School in Woodstock, north
of Oxford. He lives in Didcot, according to his Facebook page.

GRAPHIC: The murder victims Derin, Jan Jordon and Philip Howard and suspect Jed
Allen, who has a spider tattoo, insetPolice on duty at the murder scene in
Didcot. Armed officers and dogs were yesterday searching 70 acres of parkland in
Oxford

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); AUTOPSIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); VIOLENT CRIME
(78%); RIOTS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); DOGS (72%); RUGBY (71%); SELFIES
(60%)

PERSON: HUGH JACKMAN (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OXFORD, ENGLAND (90%) ENGLAND (90%) Scotland

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015


                              86 of 161 DOCUMENTS


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             June 20, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: LAPD officers pursue, shoot armed domestic violence suspect in El
Monte

BYLINE: Brian Day

BODY:

EL MONTE >> Los Angeles police shot and critically wounded an armed domestic
violence suspect in El Monte early Friday at the conclusion of a two-hour car
chase that began in South Los Angeles, authorities said.

The wounded suspect was rushed into surgery and hospitalized in critical
condition following the shooting, which took place about 5:30 a.m. at Valley
Boulevard and Mountain View Road , Los Angeles police Lt. John Jenal said.

The incident began two hours earlier, when officers from the LAPD s Southeast
Division responded to a report of a domestic assault in the are of 96th Street
and Firth Avenue, the lieutenant said. They encountered a victim with
significant injuries, but the suspect had already left.

Video: Pursuit and officer-involved shooting (Note: Graphic content)

Officers spotted the suspect driving a white Toyota minivan nearby and began a
pursuit when he failed to pull over, Jenal said.

The slow speed chase continued for about two hours, primarily on surface
streets, Jenal said.  Officers saw him waving a weapon.

Police used a spike strip to flatten the minivans wheels, but the suspect
continued driving on the van s rims.

He stopped the minivan and exited at Elliot Avenue and Cogswell Road, Jenal
said. Police first shot at the man with a bean bag gun before opening fire with
bullets, he said. The suspect, who was not struck by the gunfire, returned to
the minivan and continued driving.

The minivan again came to a stop, apparently disabled, at Valley Boulevard and
Mountain View Road.

He put a blanket over him as he exited the van, to the point where you could not
see his hands,  Jenal said.  Shortly thereafter, the blanket fell to the ground.
In his hand, he brandished that same handgun, that s when the officer-involved
shooting occurred.

Jenal said the suspect suffered multiple gunshot wounds and was in  very
critical condition  at an intensive care unit. His identity was not available.
He was initially described as about 30 years old.

Graphic video of the incident that emerged online showed the suspect brandishing
a handgun in the moments before he was shot. The view of the suspect is obscured
at the moment police open fire.

In the minutes leading up, police are seen on the video ordering the suspect to
throw his gun out the window, stop his car and surrender.

At one point, the suspect tells police,  I don t want to kill myself. I just
want to drive.  He later tells an officer who orders him to stop his van,  I can
t. You don t understand.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (91%); SHOOTINGS (91%); POLICE
FORCES (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); DEATHS &
INJURIES BY POLICE (89%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (77%); FIREARMS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2015


                              87 of 161 DOCUMENTS


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             June 20, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: LAPD officers pursue, shoot armed domestic violence suspect in El
Monte

BYLINE: Brian Day

BODY:

EL MONTE >> Los Angeles police shot and critically wounded an armed domestic
violence suspect in El Monte early Friday at the conclusion of a two-hour car
chase that began in South Los Angeles, authorities said.

The wounded suspect was rushed into surgery and hospitalized in critical
condition following the shooting, which took place about 5:30 a.m. at Valley
Boulevard and Mountain View Road , Los Angeles police Lt. John Jenal said.

The incident began two hours earlier, when officers from the LAPD s Southeast
Division responded to a report of a domestic assault in the are of 96th Street
and Firth Avenue, the lieutenant said. They encountered a victim with
significant injuries, but the suspect had already left.

Video: Pursuit and officer-involved shooting (Note: Graphic content)

Officers spotted the suspect driving a white Toyota minivan nearby and began a
pursuit when he failed to pull over, Jenal said.

The slow speed chase continued for about two hours, primarily on surface
streets, Jenal said.  Officers saw him waving a weapon.

Police used a spike strip to flatten the minivans wheels, but the suspect
continued driving on the van s rims.

He stopped the minivan and exited at Elliot Avenue and Cogswell Road, Jenal
said. Police first shot at the man with a bean bag gun before opening fire with
bullets, he said. The suspect, who was not struck by the gunfire, returned to
the minivan and continued driving.

The minivan again came to a stop, apparently disabled, at Valley Boulevard and
Mountain View Road.

He put a blanket over him as he exited the van, to the point where you could not
see his hands,  Jenal said.  Shortly thereafter, the blanket fell to the ground.
In his hand, he brandished that same handgun, that s when the officer-involved
shooting occurred.

Jenal said the suspect suffered multiple gunshot wounds and was in  very
critical condition  at an intensive care unit. His identity was not available.
He was initially described as about 30 years old.

Graphic video of the incident that emerged online showed the suspect brandishing
a handgun in the moments before he was shot. The view of the suspect is obscured
at the moment police open fire.

In the minutes leading up, police are seen on the video ordering the suspect to
throw his gun out the window, stop his car and surrender.

At one point, the suspect tells police,  I don t want to kill myself. I just
want to drive.  He later tells an officer who orders him to stop his van,  I can
t. You don t understand.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (91%); SHOOTINGS (91%); POLICE
FORCES (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); DEATHS &
INJURIES BY POLICE (89%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (77%); FIREARMS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2015


                              88 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved
                                   Daily Star

                              May 25, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: HUNT AFTER 3 BUTCHERED IN KNIFE HORROR;
Tattooed Wolverine fan goes on run asmum, stepdad and girl of 6 found dead

BYLINE: JERRY LAWTON

BODY:

ARMED police were last night hunting a Wolverine fan with a spider tattoo
suspected of butchering three members of his family.

Detectives warned the public not to approach Jed Allen, 21, who sports bushy
sideburns just like the X-Men character and is believed to be armed.

The 6ft-tall suspect vanished after his mum Janet, 48, his stepdad Philip
Howard, 44, and his half-sister Derin, six, were found stabbed to death at their
home in Didcot, Oxon, at 8.23pm on Saturday.

Police yesterday sealed off 70 acres of Oxford University parks as they searched
for the former groundsman, who has a distinctive spider tattoo on his left hand.

On his Instagram page Allen has numerous pictures of his Marvel Comics hero,
including one showing a Wolverine 21st birthday cake.

In another snap he poses with knives between his fingers to look just like the
character's razor-sharp claws.

He shows off a 10in hunting knife in a further pic. It is captioned: "Today's
purchases.'' Another photo of the same weapon bears the message: "You call that
a knife?" - a reference to a joke from 1986 comedy movie Crocodile Dundee.

Allen, who also posed with an axe, appears to have a scorpion tattoo on his
right hand and a bear etched on his chest. Det Supt Chris Ward, leading the
investigation, said officers were involved in "a number of searches" for Allen.
He added: "Armed officers are assisting with that search. The suspect has a
weapon.

"It is very important we locate him as quickly as possible. It is important we
find him."

A police spokesman added: "If you see Jed please do not approach him. Instead
call 999 immediately.'' Allen is a former groundsman at Oxford University and is
listed online as an apprentice gardener on Didcot Town Council's website.

Police launched the manhunt after the three victims' bodies were discovered
following a call to police by a member of the public.

The family had only been living in the house for two months. Neighbour Sheila
Welch said that, although she did not know them, they always looked "happy".

She added: "They are new neighbours and had only been here a couple of months.

"I used to see them, a lovely mother and a little girl. They always looked so
happy.

"All I can say is that I am very upset, it is all very traumatic.'' A former
neighbour who lives near the family's old home, also in Didcot, said Janet used
to take Derin cycling.

She said: "The little girl was always on her bike with her mother. She was
really nice. She used to smile and say hello when she saw you in the street.''
Last night tributes to the victims began pouring in. One read: "God bless you
all xxx Derrin you beautiful angel xx."

Wolverine is a fictional superhero who first appeared in Marvel Comics in the
1970s.

He is a mutant who possesses animal-keen senses and enhanced physical
capabilities. He has been depicted as one of the X-Men, Alpha Flight and The
Avengers but has featured in his own solo comic since 1988.

The character has appeared in an animated TV series and video games and was
played by Australian Hugh Jackman, 46, in the seven X-Men movies.

jerry.lawton@dailystar.co.uk

GRAPHIC: ¦ WIPED OUT: Derrin, mum Janet and, below right, stepdad Philip. Below
left and centre, spider tattoo and armed officer in search¦ SUSPECT: Allen with
axe, Wolverine claws, mask and knifeHERO: Jackman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%);
STEPPARENTS (76%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); REGIONAL &
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); CYCLING (60%); COMEDY FILMS (51%); CITIES (50%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: National Edition

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015


                              89 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved
                            The Star (South Africa)

                             June 09, 2015 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Quick Take

BODY:

POLICE are searching for seven awaiting-trial prisoners who escaped from Lenasia
Magistrate's Court yesterday. It is understood that the prisoners overpowered
the police officers at the holding cells and fled at about 4pm. "The prisoners
had already appeared in court for robbery with aggravating circumstances and
housebreaking and theft," said Gauteng police spokesman Lieutenant Colonel
Lungelo Dlamini. He said the prisoners were appearing for cases committed at
Lenasia, Eldorado Park and Ennerdale. Dlamini urged anyone with information to
contact the police on Crime Stop at 08600 10111. The suspects' names are Johnson
Leroy, Romeo Beukes, Luvesh Veerasmy, Dumisani Selepe, Thabiso Sebelwane, Mpho
Ramatsoale and Brendon Paul. - Kgopi Mabotja

Two people died yesterday morning when their cars collided head-on on the N12
just outside Joburg, paramedics said. ER24 spokesman Pieter Rossouw said the
accident happened near the Bapsfontein off-ramp. "The collision involved two
cars and two drivers. When paramedics arrived on the scene, they found that both
drivers had been killed on impact," Rossouw said. The cause of the crash was
unknown. - ANA

The daughter-in-law of a 67-year-old KwaZulu-Natal murder victim was arrested
yesterday along with two other suspects, police said. "Intsikeni police worked
tirelessly to apprehend the suspects after they discovered the body of a
67-year-old woman at Mncwaba township in Umzimkhulu," Major Thulani Zwane said.
"Police embarked on an intelligence-driven operation which led to arrest of
three suspects, aged between 25 and 40. One of them is the deceased's
daughter-in-law." The victim, Alice Ntombencane Dlamini, was found dead in her
bedroom on May 28. "She was allegedly assaulted and strangled with an electric
cord," Zwane said, adding that the motive remained unknown. - ANA

Police allegedly shot dead an armed robber who opened fire|on them in the Yako
informal settlement outside Butterworth, Eastern Cape police said yesterday.
Spokesman Captain Jackson Manatha said police attended to an armed robbery on
Saturday after two liquor outlets were robbed by two men. One suspect was armed
with a pistol and the other had a knife. They searched customers in the outlets,
demanding their cellphones and money. They also robbed a manager at one of the
outlets of an undisclosed amount of money. Butterworth police responded swiftly
and came across the suspect who was armed with the pistol. He apparently fired
shots at the police, who returned fire. The suspect died instantly at the scene.
The second suspect fled into the settlement. - ANA

A 72-year-old KwaZulu-Natal induna and a man of 62 were arrested yesterday for
possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition during a crime prevention
operation, KZN police spokesman Major Thulani Zwane said. Pietermaritzburg
Public Order Police Task Team Unit members were deployed in the Msinga area
where they followed up information about illegal firearms. Both suspects were
charged and were due to appear|in the Msinga Magistrate's Court yesterday. - ANA

TWO ZIMBABWEANS accused of stealing copper cables at Kleinfontein farm near
Brits had been arrested, North West police said yesterday. One of the men was
shot and wounded, allegedly by the owner of the farm. The second one was
apparently severely assaulted while they were being held by residents before
police arrived on the scene, Sergeant Kelebogile Moleko said. "The owner said he
was contacted by his nightwatchman and was informed that two people were busy
stealing cables. The farmer rushed to the scene and caught them in the act. He
fired two warning shots on the ground and the men jumped into a nearby dam," he
added. "He saw that one had been wounded in the left thigh." The suspect who was
allegedly beaten was in a critical condition at Brits Hospital, Moleko said.
Both men, aged 31, were arrested and charged with theft. They are under police
guard in the hospital. - ANA

THE GOVERNMENT would be sourcing drugs in short supply outside the country
because of problems with sourcing medicine locally, the Health Department said
yesterday. Health Minister |Dr Aaron Motsoaledi met executives from
pharmaceutical companies on Friday and was informed that the firms were
experiencing problems supplying about 155 product lines. It included
antibiotics, cardiovascular medicines, painkillers and central nervous system
medication. The drugs were expected to arrive in the country in the next two
weeks. - ANA

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW

SUBJECT: MAGISTRATES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ROBBERY
(89%); ARRESTS (89%); PARAMEDICS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); POLICE FORCES
(79%); MURDER (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT &
BATTERY (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (74%); ACCIDENTAL
FATALITIES (74%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (73%); CRIME PREVENTION (72%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%)

PUB-SUBJECT: TheStar.News

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (58%) SOUTH AFRICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015


                              90 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved
                                Daily Times (PK)

                               May 4, 2015 Monday

LENGTH: 547  words

HEADLINE: Baltimore bleeds

DATELINE: Pakistan

BODY:

Pakistan, May 4 -- In the past weeks, the Baltimore, US riots have terrorised
the city, forcing the Mayor to institute a curfew and to shut down schools and
places of work. Civil rights activists, leaders of the Baltimore black community
and the family of the deceased have urged protestors to demonstrate peacefully.
The riots broke out after Freddie Gray, a 25-year-old black man sustained a
spinal cord injury after being arrested by the police for carrying a
switch-blade. Gray died on April 19, a week after his arrest, which was proved
unlawful because the 'switch-blade' that he was allegedly carrying was actually
a pocket knife. Although the Baltimore Police Department refused to admit that
excessive force had been used, eyewitnesses stated that Gray's injuries had been
inflicted by the police officers after they chased him down and arrested him. It
was also reported that the officers repeatedly refused his pleas for medical
care while they were transporting him to jail. On Friday, the Baltimore State
Attorney charged the six officers involved with murder and misconduct charges.

It is unfortunate that the rioting has gotten out of control and that several
rioters have had to be arrested but it is important to understand that the
people of Baltimore are not just protesting the death of Freddie Gray. There
have been countless cases of wrongful arrests and shootings of black men (along
with other minorities) in the US, yet these have largely gone unspoken and
unheard of. Since the Michael Brown shooting last year however, these cases have
been increasingly attracting public attention and sparking outrage and protests
from people of all races. These reactions show that the attitude towards
African-Americans and other minorities has changed drastically in recent
history. Yet, there are still strains of racism left, of which police
departments countrywide are prime examples. There are many security nets in
place for police officers' misconduct and a system of proper checks needs to be
put in place to prevent the police from misusing their power and exercising
caution whilst approaching and arresting suspects. Most of the cases in which
police officers have used unnecessary force to unlawfully arrest black men seem
to have been motivated by fear that the suspects are armed and dangerous based
on the way they look. This fear reflects a mindset that African-Americans are
more likely to commit crimes. It is regrettable that it took days of rioting for
the Baltimore State Attorney to begin investigating Gray's murder. The police
union of Baltimore and many legislators are still opposed to the charges that
the State's Attorney has brought against the officers involved. There were both
black and white officers amongst those charged with Gray's murder, showing that
police officers of all races tend to racially profile African-Americans. The US
Police Departments need to rethink their training procedures to make officers
more racially sensitive and less fearful of African-Americans and hold police
misconduct to a higher degree of accountability.*

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (91%); ARRESTS (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); PROTESTS &
DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); MURDER
(89%); MISCONDUCT (89%); MEN (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
POLICE FORCES (89%); LAWYERS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA
(77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%);
INVESTIGATIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015


                              91 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                           Copyright 2015 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                                  Daily Times

                               May 4, 2015 Monday

SECTION: Vol. XIII No. 410

LENGTH: 510  words

HEADLINE: Baltimore bleeds

BODY:

 In the past weeks, the Baltimore, US riots have terrorised the city, forcing
the Mayor to institute a curfew and to shut down schools and places of work.
Civil rights activists, leaders of the Baltimore black community and the family
of the deceased have urged protestors to demonstrate peacefully. The riots broke
out after Freddie Gray, a 25-year-old black man sustained a spinal cord injury
after being arrested by the police for carrying a switch-blade. Gray died on
April 19, a week after his arrest, which was proved unlawful because the
'switch-blade' that he was allegedly carrying was actually a pocket knife.
Although the Baltimore Police Department refused to admit that excessive force
had been used, eyewitnesses stated that Grays injuries had been inflicted by the
police officers after they chased him down and arrested him. It was also
reported that the officers repeatedly refused his pleas for medical care while
they were transporting him to jail. On Friday, the Baltimore State Attorney
charged the six officers involved with murder and misconduct charges.

It is unfortunate that the rioting has gotten out of control and that several
rioters have had to be arrested but it is important to understand that the
people of Baltimore are not just protesting the death of Freddie Gray. There
have been countless cases of wrongful arrests and shootings of black men (along
with other minorities) in the US, yet these have largely gone unspoken and
unheard of. Since the Michael Brown shooting last year however, these cases have
been increasingly attracting public attention and sparking outrage and protests
from people of all races. These reactions show that the attitude towards
African-Americans and other minorities has changed drastically in recent
history. Yet, there are still strains of racism left, of which police
departments countrywide are prime examples. There are many security nets in
place for police officers misconduct and a system of proper checks needs to be
put in place to prevent the police from misusing their power and exercising
caution whilst approaching and arresting suspects. Most of the cases in which
police officers have used unnecessary force to unlawfully arrest black men seem
to have been motivated by fear that the suspects are armed and dangerous based
on the way they look. This fear reflects a mindset that African-Americans are
more likely to commit crimes. It is regrettable that it took days of rioting for
the Baltimore State Attorney to begin investigating Grays murder. The police
union of Baltimore and many legislators are still opposed to the charges that
the States Attorney has brought against the officers involved. There were both
black and white officers amongst those charged with Grays murder, showing that
police officers of all races tend to racially profile African-Americans. The US
Police Departments need to rethink their training procedures to make officers
more racially sensitive and less fearful of African-Americans and hold police
misconduct to a higher degree of accountability.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (91%); ARRESTS (91%); MISCONDUCT (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%);
PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%);
MURDER (89%); MEN (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE
FORCES (89%); LAWYERS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (77%);
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (76%);
CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SPINAL
CORD INJURIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (79%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015


                              92 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved
                            The Star (South Africa)

                             June 04, 2015 Thursday
                                   S1 Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Robbery suspect dies in police custody

BYLINE:  RABBIE SERUMULA rabbie.serumula@inl.co.za

BODY:

A SUSPECT has died in police custody, a day after he was detained at the
Diepkloof police cells in Soweto following a shootout with police.

The suspect, whose identity |is yet to be revealed, died on Tuesday night as he
was being served breakfast.

He was the second person to |be found dead in police custody |this week.

The suspect was one of an armed gang of more than five men who were involved in
a shootout with the police.

A police officer was wounded.

They were apparently trying to flee from a liquor store they had just robbed in
Diepkloof Zone 1 around 8pm on Tuesday.

Gauteng police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said the dead
suspect was a resident of a Soweto hostel. He said the man, who was his 20s,
died as he was being given breakfast.

"After a few hours when the police visited the cells, he was found dead," said
Dlamini.

The suspects had stormed a Shoprite liquor store in Diepkloof armed with
handguns and assault rifles before they confronted staff members and demanded
money.

"They fired several shots and robbed the staff of more than R10 000. No one was
injured at the liquor shop," said Dlamini.

As the gang were fleeing, Diepkloof police who were patrolling the area gave
chase.

During the shootout that ensued, a police officer was shot three times. Several
vehicles, including a police van, were damaged by stray bullets.

The officer was taken to Milpark Hospital in a serious but stable condition.

Dlamini said police were investigating several cases of attempted murder and
malicious damage |to property.

He said the Independent Police Investigative Directorate would investigate the
suspect's death.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ROBBERY
(90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%);
EMERGENCY VEHICLES (78%); MURDER (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BEER WINE
& LIQUOR STORES (75%); POLICE FORCES (73%); FIREARMS (72%)

PUB-SUBJECT: TheStar.News

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015


                              93 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved
                            The Star (South Africa)

                             June 04, 2015 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Robbery suspect dies in police custody

BYLINE:  RABBIE SERUMULA rabbie.serumula@inl.co.za

BODY:

A SUSPECT has died in police custody, a day after he was detained at the
Diepkloof police cells in Soweto following a shootout with police.

The suspect, whose identity |is yet to be revealed, died on Tuesday night as he
was being served breakfast.

He was the second person to |be found dead in police custody |this week.

The suspect was one of an armed gang of more than five men who were involved in
a shootout with the police.

A police officer was wounded.

They were apparently trying to flee from a liquor store they had just robbed in
Diepkloof Zone 1 around 8pm on Tuesday.

Gauteng police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said the dead
suspect was a resident of a Soweto hostel. He said the man, who was his 20s,
died as he was being given breakfast.

"After a few hours when the police visited the cells, he was found dead," said
Dlamini.

The suspects had stormed a Shoprite liquor store in Diepkloof armed with
handguns and assault rifles before they confronted staff members and demanded
money.

"They fired several shots and robbed the staff of more than R10 000. No one was
injured at the liquor shop," said Dlamini.

As the gang were fleeing, Diepkloof police who were patrolling the area gave
chase.

During the shootout that ensued, a police officer was shot three times. Several
vehicles, including a police van, were damaged by stray bullets.

The officer was taken to Milpark Hospital in a serious but stable condition.

Dlamini said police were investigating several cases of attempted murder and
malicious damage |to property..

He said the Independent Police Investigative Directorate would investigate the
suspect's death.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ROBBERY
(90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%);
EMERGENCY VEHICLES (78%); MURDER (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BEER WINE
& LIQUOR STORES (75%); POLICE FORCES (73%); FIREARMS (72%)

PUB-SUBJECT: TheStar.News

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015


                              94 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2015 The Sun Publishing Limited
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               The Sun (Nigeria)

                               May 1, 2015 Friday

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: Robbery pays better in Kogi -Suspect

BYLINE: Our Reporter

BODY:

A suspect has revealed that armed robbery pays better in Kogi than in Lagos
State.

By CHRISTOPHER OJI

A suspect has revealed that armed robbery pays better in Kogi than in Lagos
State.

Akinropo Ogunsina, 32 and his native doctor accomplice, Jimoh Akeem, are being
interrogated at the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) of the Lagos State Police
Command.

"I was working in a Chinese company before I was sacked.  I bought a motorcycle
for commercial.

"I also did  black market fuel business. I bought fuel from Ijaw oil pipeline
vandals. I paid N2,500 for 50 litres and sold for N3,200."

He disclosed that when police were raiding the business premises daily, he
abandoned it and joined an armed robbery gang.

"I met Sunday David in Agbara area. Then, I used to sleep in a club at Agbara.
He said I should be going out with him to tear nets at night and steal people's
phones and monies. We were collecting phones, jewelry, laptops and money.

"I have gone out for operation six times with Sunday.  We operated in Egbeda and
Agbara. We went out for operation about 12 midnight. I was arrested in 2013, and
charged to court. I was released on bail. I don't know how much my friends and
family spent to get me out of prison.

"I went to Okene in Lokoja area of Kogi State.  One guy, Alhaji, who I used to
sell stolen phones, gold and laptops to, directed me to Lokoja. He stays in
Agege, Lagos. He directed me to meet one Adeshe and work with him. They operated
like those people in Lagos."

"I spent only one month there and worked for about three times with him. I had a
misunderstanding with him over women. He threatened to deal with me, so I came
back to Lagos. I have not done any job since I came back to Lagos.

On some of the properties he acquired with robbery money, Akinropo said he
bought a Honda car. When he came out of prison for N680,000. It was the little
money with my wife, about N90,000 and the job we did in Okene that I put
together to buy the car.

"I got over a million Naira from Okene operation.  That is why I said that
robbery pays better in Kogi than in Lagos.  In Lagos, people don't keep big
money at home, but in Kogi, they keep money at home. Moreso, in Lagos, police
will be chasing you up and down.

"There was a big man we robbed in Okene. The money was so big that I got over a
million naira. We were four in number who went for the operation.  I knew Jimoh
Akeem in 2010. He disguised as a herbalist.  We were operating together when we
were tearing nets.

"We were also deceiving and collecting money from people who came to do medicine
for gun protection. He also deceived people that he could change fake dollars
for good ones. At-times, he gave me N5,000 after doing the herbalist job and the
highest he had given me was N10,000," he said.

For the self-acclaimed herbalist, Jimoh, 20, he said: "I am married with two
children, I have two wives. I once lived in Ikorodu and later in Iwo. I built a
house in Iwo. I have two cars, Murano SUV and KIA Altima.

"I stole fake dollars from the man who asked me to change it for him. That was
how I started using it. I have gone out for net-tearing-robbery operation with
the gang for four times."

He, however, said that unlike his colleague, he had not gone to prisons before
as he was never arrested.

"I got peanuts from the three operations I have gone out with the gang. I got
N70,000, N80,000 and N100,000.

Lagos State police spokesman, Kenneth Nwosu, confirmed the arrest of the duo.

He said Akinropo had also been arrested in 2013 for robbery and charged to
court, but was released in 2014.

According to him, Akinropo led SARS team to arrest Jimoh in Iwo, Osun State.

He said one locally-made gun was recovered in Jimoh's house.

Funsho Williams' murder: Court rejects fresh suit

By LUKMAN OLABIYI

A suit filed by Mr. Bashir Junaid, a former political associate of National
Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu,  seeking fresh
investigations into the murder of the governorship aspirant, Funsho Williams,
has been struck out.

The suit was dismissed on Wednesday by a Federal High Court sitting in Lagos
presided over by Justice Rita Ofili-Ajumogobia, following an application based
on want of diligent prosecution.  The court also awarded N25,000  cost  against
Junaid. He is to pay the money to the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) and the
Attorney- General of the Federation, who had asked the court to strike out the
matter with cost.

Williams, an aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), was on July 27,
2006 strangled to death at his residence, 34A Corporation Drive, Dolphin Estate,
Ikoyi, Lagos.

A Lagos High Court sitting in Igbosere had, on June 30, 2014,  discharged six
accused persons charged with the murder.

They are Bulama Kolo, Musa Maina, David Cassidy, Tunani Sonani, Mustapha Kayode
and Okponwasa Imariebie, who were freed eight years after by retired Justice
Ebenezer Adebajo, who held that the prosecution failed to establish a prima
facie case against them.

Junaid filed the fresh application seeking an order of mandamus compelling the
Inspector-General of Police to re-open investigations into the assassination,
with the hope of possible fresh trial.

In the suit, he had fingered as a prime suspect, Tinubu, against whom the late
Williams had been racing for the office of governor before his killing.

Other defendants were the APC Legal Adviser, Dr. Muiz Banire; Mr.
B[#x430]b[#x430]tund[#x435] Edu; Mr. Dele Al[#x430]k[#x435],
Mr[#x455].M[#x43e]du[#x440][#x435] Shasore and Ol[#x430]d[#x435]l[#x435]
Aj[#x43e]m[#x430]l[#x435], Lagos State APC Chairman.

Others were the IGP, the Attorney-General of Lagos State and the Lagos
Commissioner of Police.

When the matter was called on Wednesday, the plaintiff's counsel, Miss O.
Benjamin, referring to an earlier order made by the court, said, "My Lord, the
matter is for mention today, unfortunately, we've not been able to obtain the
order as we were told that the court is ill."

But Ofili-Ajumogobia, who did not take kindly to the comment, disagreed.

Beninoise driver docked for stealing N1.65m from boss

BY LUKMAN OLABIYI

A 34- year- old driver and a Beninoise, Innocent Togboe, has been arraigned
before a Lagos Magistrate's Court sitting in Igbosere over alleged stealing of
N1.65million from his employer.

The defendant who has no fixed address, was docked before Magistrate F Dalley.

Togboe, who is facing one-count charge of stealing, pleaded not guilty.

The prosecutor, Inspector Gbemileke Agoi, told the court that the accused person
committed the offence on August 28, 2013 in Victoria Island, Lagos.

Agoi said the defendant stole the said sum from Mr Ladi Ajose-Adeogun, his boss.

"The defendant stole the money after taking his boss to a gym.  While there, the
driver searched the car, and took the money  from where it was kept, he then
dropped the car keys on the seat and fled."

The prosecutor said Togboe was later apprehended after his guarantor caught him.

After his arrest, Togboe confessed to have committed the crime and had gone to
his home country, Benin Republic, built a four-bedroom flat with the money and
returned to Lagos.

The prosecutor said the offence is punishable under Sections 285 (7) of the
Criminal Laws of Lagos State of Nigeria 2011.

Magistrate Dalley granted the defendant bail for N50,000 with two sureties in
like sum.

She adjourned the matter till May 7 for mention.

2 detained for robbery

By CHRISTOPHER OJI

The Delta State Police Command has arrested two robbery suspects.

The police also recovered a single barrel gun, live cartridges, ATM card and
N5,600 from them.

The anti-crime patrol team in company with the town's vigilance group while on
patrol responded to a distress call from a woman.

She told the team that she was just robbed at gun-point by two boys.  The team
immediately chased the hoodlums, they were arrested in the bush.

The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Celestina Kalu, who confirmed
the arrest, gave the names of the suspects  as Gabriel Jonathan  and Egbevwiare
Ogheneroro.

She said they confessed to the crime and the police recovered gun, cartridges
money and ATM card.

She said the victim has identified her ATM card and money while the police were
investigating to ascertain if there were other gang members, noting that the
suspects will soon be charged to court.

New IGP: Arase's kinsmen thank Jonathan

By CHRISTOPHER OJI

Esan Renaissance Union (ERU) Edo State chapter, has commended President Goodluck
Jonathan for appointing Mr Solomon Arase, one their kinsmen, as the new Acting
Inspector-General of Police (IGP).

President of the group, Mr Aigbefo Irieteoshe Jnr had at a conference,  said the
appointment of Mr. Arase was very much in order. In a statement jointly signed
by the union president and secretary, Messrs  Irieteoshe and Jude.  Ihichoya,
the union condemned a former IGP, Ibrahim  Coomassie for attacking President
Goodluck Jonathan over the removal of the former police boss, Mr Suleiman Abba,
saying the former's statement was not good for democracy.

"In as much as others, like former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and the late
Shehu Umaru Yar'Adua hired and fired other men who were IGPs,  Jonathan has the
right to appoint and fire IGPs"

The union disclosed that if given the necessary logistics and support by the
Federal Government, Arase, by his pedigree would deliver.

Similarly, a security analyst, Mr Folorunsho Atta has said Arase's appointment
came at a time when the nation needed  a transformer for the incoming
government of  Gen. Muhammadu Buhari.

"Arase had always proved that he has what it takes to not only move the force to
the next level, but make it the best in Africa."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1228

SUBJECT: ROBBERY (93%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); BAIL
(73%); ARRESTS (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (66%);
PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (90%) NIGERIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2015


                              95 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2015 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved
                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                              May 17, 2015 Sunday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Woman found shot to death in Salinas

BYLINE: By Herald staff

BODY:

A Salinas woman was found shot to death early Saturday at an apartment complex
in the 900 block of Acosta Plaza, police said.

Officers responded to an apartment at the location after area residents reported
gunshots about 2:20 a.m. On arrival they found the body of Nancy Jimenez Campos,
25, who police say had died from multiple gunshot wounds.

Witnesses or anyone who may have information about the incident are asked to
contact Detective Byron Gansen at 758-7131 or Detective Kristine Fairbanks at
758-7322. Tipsters also may call the Anonymous Tip Line at 775-4222 or the
We-Tip-Line at 1-800-78-CRIME.

Salinas

Police search for bank robbers >> Salinas police are searching for three
suspects in connection with the armed robbery of a bank in the 1200 block of
North Davis Road on Saturday.

Cmdr. Dave Crabill said the incident occurred shortly after 10 a.m. when two men
entered a RaboBank wielding firearms, while a third waited in the parking lot in
what turned out to be a previously reported stolen vehicle.

Witnesses described one suspect as 6-foot to 6-foot-4, wearing a black
sweatshirt and sweatpants. He also wore white gloves and carried a black
revolver. The second suspect was 5-8, wearing black pants and a black jacket,
and was carrying a black semiautomatic pistol.

A Salinas police officer located the suspect vehicle abandoned near Westridge
Parkway.

The FBI was contacted and responded to assist in the investigation. There were
no injuries to employees or patrons at the time of the crime, and an unknown
amount of money was taken, police said.

Salinas

Kipling Drive robbery >> A woman was robbed at knifepoint Friday afternoon after
she confronted a suspect in her yard in the 200 block of Kipling Drive.

Police said the victim heard a loud sound coming from her backyard, walked
outside, and confronted a man in his 20s, approximately 5 feet 2 inches tall
with a thin build and straight black hair, wearing a brown hooded sweatshirt,
khaki-colored pants and

Police Â» Page 4

white cotton gloves.

The suspect, who had a knife, ordered the victim back into the residence, where
he opened cabinet drawers in the living room and dining room. He then forced the
victim into the upstairs bedroom, where he opened multiple dresser drawers.

He demanded money, then fled the residence and was spotted by several witnesses
as he leaped over several fences. He was last seen running northbound on
Primavera Street to Primavera Way.

An extensive neighborhood check was conducted by Salinas police officers and
detectives.

Two unlocked vehicles in the 1300 block of Byron Drive had items stolen from
inside, police said. It is believed that these area thefts are related to the
residential burglary and that the victim was not specifically targeted.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Detective Gerry Magana at 758-7129
or Detective Dale Fors at 758-7124.

Salinas

suspected of shooting doves >> Illegal pellet guns were confiscated Friday by
Salinas police from two 17-year-old male students who may have been shooting at
birds near Palma High.

Police were dispatched to the 900 block of Iverson Street, near Ambrose Drive,
just before 8 a.m. after a citizen reported that suspects associated with a
white pickup truck were shooting rifles in the Ambrose Drive neighborhood.

The license plate number of the vehicle was provided to officers, who contacted
the suspects and found three scoped pellet rifles and one pellet pistol inside
the truck.

A further search revealed concentrated cannabis honey oil and one dead Eurasian
collared dove.

Officers from the Department of Fish and Game responded to assist in the
investigation and determined that the suspects probably were shooting doves
within the city limits, which is illegal.

The students were issued citations and released to their parents for several
city code violations, penal code violations and CCR title 14 violations.

One of the teens also was cited for possession of concentrated cannabis.

Police

From Page 2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (94%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
EYEWITNESSES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ROBBERY (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES
(78%); BANK ROBBERY (78%); VEHICLE THEFT (74%); BURGLARY (74%); FIREARMS (72%);
PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%)

COMPANY: COOPERATIEVE CENTRALE RAIFFEISEN-BOERENLEENBANK BA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC
(55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2015


                              96 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                         Copyright 2015 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                            The Times (South Africa)

                              May 7, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: CRIME, LAW & JUSTICE

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: On the run 'killer' cop armed to the teeth

BYLINE: Graeme Hosken

BODY:

They wanted to kill all suspects to hide evidence
 A HEAVILY armed policeman alleged to have killed three murder suspects is on
the run.


 The detective was based at Springs police station, on the East Rand. He is
believed to be armed with his state-issued R5 rifle and hundreds of rounds of
ammunition.
  He fled as other officers attempted to arrest him.
 His service pistol was recently taken from him because he was under
investigation for misconduct.
 He went on the run after being alerted to his imminent arrest.
 His partner and two informants were arrested on Tuesday.
 The two policemen are allegedly responsible for murdering three suspects in
several armed robbery and murder investigations.
 The bodies of the suspects, one of whom had been beaten to death, were found on
Monday hidden in a field near the West Rand mining town of Carletonville.
 Two of the suspects had been shot.
 Moses Dlamini, spokesman for the Independent Police Investigative Directorate,
said the directorate had taken over the murder investigations from the police.
 He said the alleged murders were disclosed by an informant who was with the two
policemen when they allegedly killed the suspects.
 "He took [intelligence] agents to the field where the bodies were found," said
Dlamini.
 A fourth suspect, he said, had been shot but survived.
 "The policemen apparently wanted to kill all the men to cover up what they had
done."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Times,TT,TheTimes

SUBJECT: MURDER (93%); HOMICIDE (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); MISCONDUCT
(88%); POLICE FORCES (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); ROBBERY (78%); FIREARMS (77%);
CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (51%)

PUB-SUBJECT: Police Crimes

COMPANY: RAND MINING LTD (54%)

TICKER: RND (ASX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (54%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2015


                              97 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                         Copyright 2015 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                            The Times (South Africa)

                              May 7, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: CRIME, LAW & JUSTICE

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: On the run 'killer' cop armed to the teeth

BYLINE: Graeme Hosken

BODY:

They wanted to kill all suspects to hide evidence
 A HEAVILY armed policeman alleged to have killed three murder suspects is on
the run.


 The detective was based at Springs police station, on the East Rand. He is
believed to be armed with his state-issued R5 rifle and hundreds of rounds of
ammunition.
  He fled as other officers attempted to arrest him.
 His service pistol was recently taken from him because he was under
investigation for misconduct.
 He went on the run after being alerted to his imminent arrest.
 His partner and two informants were arrested on Tuesday.
 The two policemen are allegedly responsible for murdering three suspects in
several armed robbery and murder investigations.
 The bodies of the suspects, one of whom had been beaten to death, were found on
Monday hidden in a field near the West Rand mining town of Carletonville.
 Two of the suspects had been shot.
 Moses Dlamini, spokesman for the Independent Police Investigative Directorate,
said the directorate had taken over the murder investigations from the police.
 He said the alleged murders were disclosed by an informant who was with the two
policemen when they allegedly killed the suspects.
 "He took [intelligence] agents to the field where the bodies were found," said
Dlamini.
 A fourth suspect, he said, had been shot but survived.
 "The policemen apparently wanted to kill all the men to cover up what they had
done."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Times,TT,TheTimes

SUBJECT: MURDER (93%); HOMICIDE (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); MISCONDUCT
(88%); POLICE FORCES (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); ROBBERY (78%); FIREARMS (77%);
CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (51%)

PUB-SUBJECT: Police Crimes

COMPANY: RAND MINING LTD (54%)

TICKER: RND (ASX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (54%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2015


                              98 of 161 DOCUMENTS


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                              June 19, 2015 Friday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: LAPD officers pursue, shoot armed domestic violence suspect in El
Monte

BYLINE: Brian Day

BODY:

EL MONTE >> Los Angeles police shot and critically wounded an armed domestic
violence suspect in El Monte early Friday at the conclusion of a two-hour car
chase that began in South Los Angeles, authorities said.

The wounded suspect was rushed into surgery and hospitalized in critical
condition following the shooting, which took place about 5:30 a.m. at Valley
Boulevard and Mountain View Road , Los Angeles police Lt. John Jenal said.

The incident began two hours earlier, when officers from the LAPD s Southeast
Division responded to a report of a domestic assault in the are of 96th Street
and Firth Avenue, the lieutenant said. They encountered a victim with
significant injuries, but the suspect had already left.

Officers spotted the suspect driving a white Toyota minivan nearby and began a
pursuit when he failed to pull over, Jenal said.

The slow speed chase continued for about two hours, primarily on surface
streets, Jenal said.  Officers saw him waving a weapon.

Police used a spike strip to flatten the minivans wheels, but the suspect
continued driving on the van s rims.

He stopped the minivan and exited at Elliot Avenue and Cogswell Road, Jenal
said. Police first shot at the man with a bean bag gun before opening fire with
bullets, he said. The suspect, who was not struck by the gunfire, returned to
the minivan and continued driving.

The minivan again came to a stop, apparently disabled, at Valley Boulevard and
Mountain View Road.

He put a blanket over him as he exited the van, to the point where you could not
see his hands,  Jenal said.  Shortly thereafter, the blanket fell to the ground.
In his hand, he brandished that same handgun, that s when the officer-involved
shooting occurred.

Jenal said the suspect suffered multiple gunshot wounds and was in  very
critical condition  at an intensive care unit. His identity was not available.
He was initially described as about 30 years old.

No officers were hurt, officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (91%); SHOOTINGS (91%); POLICE
FORCES (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); DEATHS &
INJURIES BY POLICE (78%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (77%); FIREARMS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015


                              99 of 161 DOCUMENTS


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                              June 19, 2015 Friday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: LAPD officers pursue, shoot armed domestic violence suspect in El
Monte

BYLINE: Brian Day

BODY:

EL MONTE >> Los Angeles police shot and critically wounded an armed domestic
violence suspect in El Monte early Friday at the conclusion of a two-hour car
chase that began in South Los Angeles, authorities said.

The wounded suspect was rushed into surgery and hospitalized in critical
condition following the shooting, which took place about 5:30 a.m. at Valley
Boulevard and Mountain View Road , Los Angeles police Lt. John Jenal said.

The incident began two hours earlier, when officers from the LAPD s Southeast
Division responded to a report of a domestic assault in the are of 96th Street
and Firth Avenue, the lieutenant said. They encountered a victim with
significant injuries, but the suspect had already left.

Officers spotted the suspect driving a white Toyota minivan nearby and began a
pursuit when he failed to pull over, Jenal said.

The slow speed chase continued for about two hours, primarily on surface
streets, Jenal said.  Officers saw him waving a weapon.

Police used a spike strip to flatten the minivans wheels, but the suspect
continued driving on the van s rims.

He stopped the minivan and exited at Elliot Avenue and Cogswell Road, Jenal
said. Police first shot at the man with a bean bag gun before opening fire with
bullets, he said. The suspect, who was not struck by the gunfire, returned to
the minivan and continued driving.

The minivan again came to a stop, apparently disabled, at Valley Boulevard and
Mountain View Road.

He put a blanket over him as he exited the van, to the point where you could not
see his hands,  Jenal said.  Shortly thereafter, the blanket fell to the ground.
In his hand, he brandished that same handgun, that s when the officer-involved
shooting occurred.

Jenal said the suspect suffered multiple gunshot wounds and was in  very
critical condition  at an intensive care unit. His identity was not available.
He was initially described as about 30 years old.

No officers were hurt, officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (91%); SHOOTINGS (91%); POLICE
FORCES (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); DEATHS &
INJURIES BY POLICE (78%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (77%); FIREARMS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015


                              100 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                              June 12, 2015 Friday

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Jumping the gun

BYLINE: alicia yager alicia.yager@thmedia.com

BODY:

Lt. Brad Shannon anticipates members of the Dubuque Police Department's tactical
team will receive more calls than usual in the months leading up to the U.S.
presidential election.

Shannon, who is taking over as head of the tactical entry team, said the team's
duties include assisting Secret Service when dignitaries - primarily political
candidates or sitting presidents and vice presidents - make stops in Dubuque.

"With a presidential election, we can get called a lot," Shannon said. "We
assist with whatever they require."

Shannon and other entry team members recently completed their 10-hour monthly
training at the law enforcement shooting range north of Dubuque. A key component
of that training involves marksmanship, though members also practice entry
approaches, clearing buildings and other scenarios.

Entry team

The Dubuque Police Department's tactical team actually is comprised of three
different teams, according to Assistant Police Chief Terry Tobin. Along with the
entry team, the department also has officers trained for the rifle/observer team
and the negotiation team.

The entry team has 12 members overseen by a lieutenant and a captain, and the
rifle/observer and negotiation teams each have six members overseen by a
lieutenant.

Tobin said the tactical entry team is primarily called for serving arrest and
search warrants when the people involved are considered dangerous. Tobin said
team members also are trained to search for armed suspects who have fled into
wooded areas. There also are three paramedic firefighters that can accompany the
entry team to calls.

In 2012, the entry and rifle/observer teams assisted with visits from President
Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden.

Tobin said the presidential candidates generally do not receive Secret Service
details unless they are a nominated candidate or there are threats against them
early in the campaign.

"When Obama first ran, he got Secret Service right away because of death
threats," Tobin said.

Should a dignitary be targeted in an attack, the police department's teams would
immediately stage in that area and handle the threat while Secret Service rushes
the politician away from that area, Tobin said.

Rifle/observer team

Tobin said the rifle/observer team also completes about 10 hours of training per
month and can function as snipers. But the team's primary use is to gather
intelligence during investigations.

"They're also responsible for pre-raid surveillance and observation of the
target area to get us intelligence before officers move in," Tobin said.

Department records show the entry and rifle/observer teams responded to the same
nine calls in 2014, most of which were for search warrants for guns or
narcotics. The two teams have assisted on one search warrant so far in 2015, and
the entry team and negotiators assisted U.S. Marshals in arresting a federal
fugitive.

Negotiation team

Tobin said the negotiation team does not have set monthly training, though
members will attend out-of-town training sessions when feasible and will meet
every few months to talk about recent incidents and review procedures.

Members of the negotiation team will respond for people who have barricaded
themselves or have taken hostages with the threat to harm themselves or others.

Department statistics show the team was called out once in 2012 for an arrest
warrant with a dangerous person, as well as once in 2013 to assist in arresting
an armed domestic-assault suspect.

Continuous training

Because the teams often work in tandem, they will also have full group training
at least once per year, Tobin said.

"That generally will be scenario- type training that they'll work through,"
Tobin said.

Tobin said because the teams are not regularly needed, team members also work in
other areas of the department, including as patrol officers, criminal
investigation officers and school resource officers.

Shannon, who has been on the tactical entry team for almost 10 years, said a key
component of monthly training is repetition of different shooting positions,
both to keep marksmanship sharp and to ingrain the movements in each officer's
mind. "We want it to be muscle memory," Shannon said. "They need to know how to
react."

Tobin said some citizens might not realize the department has a tactical
response team, which actually is the point. Tobin said the teams are designed to
use the element of surprise and to move quickly and quietly to get the job done.

"We don't always use the full complement of teams either," Tobin said. "When we
deploy the teams, we want to draw the least amount of attention possible. We try
to be low-key."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); SEARCH
WARRANTS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US
PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); ELECTION MONITORING
(89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MARSHALS (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (74%);
SHOOTINGS (74%); FIREARMS (74%); PARAMEDICS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); JOE BIDEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2015


                              101 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved
                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                             June 16, 2015 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Family of slain man fear killer may go scot-free

BYLINE:  TANKISO MAKHETHA

BODY:

THE FAMILY of a man who was shot and killed at Mamelodi West hostel say they
fear that those responsible for the killing may not be held accountable.

Class Modiba died while walking down a passage in the hostel when police were
conducting a crime prevention operation.

This was in contrast to what witnesses claimed; that Modiba was killed by a
rogue police officer who was extorting money from gamblers in the hostel.

Modiba's brother, Jack, said very little had been done regarding the
investigations as witnesses were afraid to come forward with information
regarding the shooting.

"People are scared to come forward with information about what happened. The
investigating officer said witnesses were reluctant to give statements, because
they were scared that the police officer who shot Modiba might come back for
them since he had not been arrested," said Jack.

Modiba, who was a resident at the hostel, was described as a peaceful man by his
brother. He was shot and killed on Saturday, May 23. Witnesses said he was hit
by a stray bullet fired by a police officer.

Zizi Selala, one of the witnesses, said at the time that Modiba was shot after a
police officer attempted and failed to solicit a bribe from him.

Selala alleged the officer harassed them daily and arrested them unlawfully.

Selala said after they refused to give the officer a bribe, an argument ensued
and the officer pulled out his gun and fired randomly. One of the bullets,
Selala alleged, hit Modiba and killed him.

Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Lungile Dlamini refuted the claim, saying
the shooting occurred when an armed man attempted to free suspects who had been
arrested during the police operation.

He said a case of murder was being investigated, but no arrests had been made.

Modiba said the family opened a case with the Independent Police Investigative
Directorate (Ipid) but no arrests had been made.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); EYEWITNESSES
(90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); MURDER (78%); BRIBERY (77%); POLICE FORCES
(72%); CRIME PREVENTION (72%); EXTORTION (72%)

PUB-SUBJECT: PretoriaNews.News

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015


                              102 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                              Copyright 2015 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved
                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                               May 3, 2015 Sunday

SECTION: Vol. LXIX No. 122

LENGTH: 513  words

HEADLINE: Five militants killed as attack on ex-Malir SSPs convoy foiled

BYLINE: Imtiaz Ali

BODY:

 Five suspected militants were killed in an alleged encounter when they attacked
the convoy of the former Malir senior superintendent of police on Saturday
evening in the same area where a deputy superintendent of police along with his
guard and driver was gunned down a day earlier.

Former Malir-SSP Rao Anwar Ahmed Khan told Dawn that he was going to examine the
crime scene in Gulshan-i-Hadeed where Bin Qasim DSP Abdul Fatah Sangri was
killed on Friday.

He said that due to lack of proper security, he had not visited the crime scene
on Friday.

The officer said armed men riding three motorbikes and travelling in a car
lobbed a hand grenade and opened fire on his vehicle when his convoy was on the
link road between the National Highway and the Superhighway. He said he and
other officials travelling in the armoured personnel carrier of police remained
unhurt. In retaliatory fire opened by his police guards, the car driver was
killed on the spot, he said. As the suspects tried to flee, his guards armed
with G-3 rifles took positions and killed four of them, while an equal number of
suspects managed to escape, the SSP said.

Rao Anwar claimed to have seized the car, one motorcycle, weapons and hand
grenades from their custody.

The police said the identity of the suspects, who sported beards, could not be
ascertained immediately though the officer said he believed they were militants.

The SSP said the dead men could have links with the banned militant outfits as
he said he had been facing threat from the Al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent
(AQIS) and different groups of the outlawed Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan such as
the Shaharyar group and the Sajna group.

The officer was transferred on Thursday night following his press conference in
which the Muttahida Qaumi Movement was accused of its involvement in terrorist
activities. The police chief removed him from the position on the charge of
misusing his authority, after Chief Minister Syed Qaim Ali Shah had taken
serious notice of the press conference and sought a report from the police chief
on the matter within 24 hours.

Meanwhile, Karachi-East DIG Munir Ahmed Shaikh told Dawn that the police
investigators found some leads to the targeted killing of DSP Bin Qasim Fatah
Sangri, head constable Nazeer Ahmed and constable Farooq Ahmed.

He said sketches of the assailants had been prepared with the help of witnesses.
The investigators also had obtained footage to examine and identify the
attackers who must have done a recce before targeting the DSP.

The senior officer recalled that in 2001 nine policemen had been gunned down in
the same area of Gulshan-i-Hadeed. He said the police investigators were trying
to ascertain if the Friday morning attack had any links with that incident.

In reply to a question, the officer said the police in their initial findings
suspected involvement of banned militant outfits in the killing of the DSP, his
guard and driver.

"DSP Sangri may not have taken active part against the militants, but he might
have been targeted for being a senior police officer," said the DIG East.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%);
LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); WITNESSES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES
(78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%);
MOTORCYCLES (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (90%) KARACHI PAKISTAN (92%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015


                              103 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 23, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime; Obituaries; News; Local

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Tree at San Jose hospital dedicated to fallen Officer Michael Johnson

BYLINE: Bay City News Service

BODY:

SAN JOSE - An annual celebration today for emergency medical services partners
at Regional Medical Center of San Jose included a special ceremony for fallen
Officer Michael Johnson.

A Japanese maple tree was dedicated to Johnson outside of Regional Medical
Center's emergency room, hospital spokeswoman Bev Mikalonis said.

Johnson was shot and killed by an armed suspect while responding to a call for
service on March 24. He was a San Jose police officer for 14 years and the 12th
officer killed in the line of duty since the department was founded in 1849.

Hospital president and CEO Michael Johnson, who has no relation to the fallen
officer, led the dedication and unveiled a bronze plaque placed on a rock in
front of the tree.

The plaque reads, "We are forever grateful for the sacrifice you have made to
protect and serve our community. To honor the life, strength, and bravery of
Officer Johnson, this tree is planted in his memory."

His mother, Katherine Decker, and wife, Nicole Johnson, attended the ceremony,
where they were presented with a duplicate plaque, Mikalonis said.

The celebration at Regional Medical Center was held in appreciation of the
hospital's ONE TEAM, which Johnson was a part of as a police officer, Mikalonis
said.

ONE TEAM is a partnership between Regional Medical Center and the city's police
officers, firefighters, ambulance drivers and military personnel.

About 450 people attend the annual event, which includes a barbecue lunch cooked
by the ONE TEAM.

The event was held in conjunction with National EMS Week, which continues
through Saturday.

Local officials at today's event included San Jose City council members
Magdalena Carrasco, Ash Kalra and Raul Peralez and police Chief Larry Esquivel.



Copyright © 2015 by Bay City News, Inc. ... Republication, re-transmission or
reuse without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.

GRAPHIC: Mother and wife of fallen San Jose police Officer Michael Johnson
receive a plaque during a special ceremony at Regional Medical Center. (PHOTOS
COURTESY OF TOM YAMAMOTO/REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER OF SAN JOSE)
Plaque placed in front of tree dedicated to fallen San Jose police Officer
Michael Johnson at Regional Medical Center. (PHOTOS COURTESY OF TOM
YAMAMOTO/REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER OF SAN JOSE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DEATHS &
OBITUARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES
(78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AMBULANCE &
RESCUE SERVICES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CITIES (65%);
ARMED FORCES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2015


                              104 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                             June 20, 2015 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: LAPD officers shoot, wound suspect;
Police say man pulled gun on officers after a two-hour pursuit that ended in El
Monte.

BYLINE: Ruben Vives, Kate Mather

BODY:

A man suspected of assaulting a woman in South Los Angeles was shot by LAPD
officers after a two-hour pursuit that ended in El Monte.

The suspect, whose name has not been released, was wounded during the second of
two shootings that happened in the San Gabriel Valley city. LAPD Officer Matt
Ludwig said the man had a gun.

Ludwig said two officers responded about 1 a.m. Friday to a domestic violence
call in the 9300 block of Firth Boulevard. The two officers were speaking with
the female victim when they noticed the male suspect driving away in a white
Toyota minivan.

"They attempted to do a traffic stop, but he did not stop and a pursuit
started," Ludwig said. The chase was at low speeds, he said.

"At some point during the pursuit, he called CHP and notified them that he was
armed," Ludwig said of the suspect.

Once in El Monte, the man stopped the minivan at Cogwell Road and Elliot Avenue
and got out. Officers opened fire.

LAPD Lt. John Jenal said it was unclear what exactly happened during that
shooting, but he said there was no initial evidence to suggest that the man had
been struck. The suspect got back into his vehicle and drove off.

Ludwig said officers used a spike strip to disable and stop the minivan, but the
man continued driving with flat tires. The minivan came to a stop about half a
mile away from the scene of the first shooting, at Mountain View Road and Valley
Boulevard.

The man got out of the vehicle holding a blanket. He dropped it at one point and
brandished a gun, according to Jenal and Ludwig. Officers fired again.

The suspect was taken to a hospital, where he remains in critical condition,
Ludwig said.

Jenal called the incident "very complex" and said the investigations into both
officer-involved shootings -- routine after such incidents -- were in their
preliminary stages. Police said no officers were injured.

--

ruben.vives@latimes.com

kate.mather@latimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); DEATHS
& INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (78%);
INVESTIGATIONS (77%)

PUB-SUBJECT: SOUTH LOS ANGELES; LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT; POLICE PURSUITS;
POLICE SHOOTINGS; DOMESTIC VIOLENCE

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015


                              105 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2015 El Paso Times (El Paso, TX)
                             El Paso Times (Texas)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 19, 2015 Tuesday

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Ex-bodyguard of former Juárez police chief arrested in execution-style
killings in 2012

BYLINE: Daniel Borunda, El Paso Times, Texas

BODY:

May 19--A Juárez police officer was arrested Monday in connection with the
execution-style shooting of four people three years ago, the Chihuahua state
attorney general's office said.

Jose Luis Arreola Rodriguez, who had been a bodyguard to then Juárez police
chief Julian Leyzaola Perez, is accused of taking part in the deaths of three
young men and a woman found April 24, 2012 near the San Rafael cemetery in the
outskirts of Juárez, officials said in a news release.

Arreola faces four homicide charges and an attempted murder charge as part of an
investigation that officials said could lead to more arrests.

The arrest comes three days after Leyzaola, who was wounded in a May 8 shooting
in Juárez, told the Zeta newspaper in Tijuana that a gunman told him before
pulling the trigger that the shooting was a "message" from current police chief
Jesus Antonio Reyes, who has denied the allegations.

The Chihuahua attorney general's office said that Arreola's arrest follows a
recommendation made last month by the National Commission on Human Rights asking
for an investigation into Leyzaola and the police department.

State prosecutors identified those killed in 2012 as Alejandro Martinez
Rodriguez, 16, Jesus Efrain Rodriguez Gavirio, 17, Jose Juan Villanueva Leal,
18, and Veronica Cerros Olivas, 22. Prosecutors said a woman survived by
pretending to be dead after being wounded.

The survivor told investigators that the group was detained by police officers
at a park and were beaten because one of the suspects was allegedly armed,
officials said. After being driven around, they were taken to dirt road near the
cemetery and made to kneel with their heads covered.

The survivor told investigators she heard one of the officer's say "shoot each
one three times in the head" but she was not shot because she pretended to be
dead, officials said. The woman later walked through the desert and got help at
the customs checkpoint on the Panamerican Highway.

Daniel Borunda may be reached at 546-6102.

___ (c)2015 the El Paso Times (El Paso, Texas) Visit the El Paso Times (El Paso,
Texas) at www.elpasotimes.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EY

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%);
SHOOTINGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); MURDER (78%); HOMICIDE
(78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); DEATHS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); EXCISE &
CUSTOMS (73%)

INDUSTRY: General

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2015


                              106 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                         Copyright 2015 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved
                                  Denver Post

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday
                               SAT FINAL Edition

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 24A

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Briefs

BODY:

CREWS SEEK TO RECOVER NINE CRASH VICTIMS

JUNEAU, ALASKA Crews resumed recovery efforts Friday at a remote site in
southeast Alaska where a sightseeing plane crashed, killing all nine people
aboard.

Eight passengers and their pilot died when the DeHavilland DHC 3 Otter turboprop
went down Thursday in Misty Fjords National Monument near Ketchikan.

The cause of the crash remained under investigation. The names of the victims
have not been released pending notification of relatives.

Fires grow in Alaska, California.Fire crews are attacking intensifying wildfires
in Alaska that together grew more than 450 square miles in one day.

The smoky wildfires prompted more residents to flee their home in voluntary
evacuations.

Fire managers say 28 new fires were logged in the state Thursday, bringing the
total to 316 fires burning almost 1,410 square miles. Much of the activity is
taking place in Alaska's warm and parched interior.

Meanwhile, in California, a 10 day old wildfire chewed through more timber and
brush in the San Bernardino Mountains, threatening thousands of homes and other
structures as it stretched northeast into the desert.

The blaze about 90 miles east of Los Angeles had scorched more than 46 square
miles by Friday much of that after roaring back to life at midweek. Residents of
the tiny Mojave communities of Burns Canyon and Rimrock were ordered to leave
their homes Thursday.

Hundreds mourn fallen officer CINCINNATI Police officers from around the country
turned out Friday for a slain Cincinnati officer's funeral, where city
officials, family and colleagues spoke of his devotion to duty and love for his
family and his city.

Hundreds of people packed Xavier University's Cintas Center to honor 48 year old
Officer Sonny Kim. Police say the 27 year veteran was killed June 19 by an armed
suspect who had made 911 calls and was seeking "suicide by cop." The suspect was
killed by police.

City Manager Harry Black called Kim a "true hero" and a model police officer.

Trump fires back at Univision new york Firing back at Univision for its refusal
to air his Miss USA and Miss Universe pageants because of his comments about
Hispanic immigrants, GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump has barred anyone
who works for Univision from the greens of his Miami golf course.

In a letter Friday to Randy Falco, Trump advised the Univision CEO that "under
no circumstances is any officer or representative of Univision allowed to use
Trump National Doral, Miami its golf courses or any of its facilities."

Burning Man organizers fight back Reno, nev. Burning Man festival organizers are
pushing back after the U.S. Bureau of Land Management requested upgraded
accommodations for its officials at this year's event in the Nevada desert.

The federal agency asked for flush toilets, washers and dryers, hot water, air
conditioning, vanity mirrors, refrigerators and couches at its on site camp,
called the Blue Pit, The Reno Gazette Journal reported Friday. The toilets are
also to be cleaned daily by Burning Man staff members.

Festival leaders have refused the request, saying those amenities alone would
cost $1 million and hike its permit fees to about $5 million.

Prosecutor seeks split trials Baltimore State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby wants a
judge to order a separate trial for two of the six officers charged in the death
of Freddie Gray.

In a motion filed Friday, Mosby asked a judge to allow two officers, William
Porter and Lt. Brian Rice, to be tried separately from the four others.

Porter and Rice are each charged with reckless endangerment, misconduct in
office, second degree assault and manslaughter, which is a felony.

Mosby's motion does not explain her strategy for trying Porter and Rice
separately from the others.

Sgt. Alicia White faces the same charges as Porter and Rice, as does Caesar
Goodson, who also faces a "depraved heart" murder charge. Officers Garrett
Miller and Edward Nero face only misdemeanors.

Gray died in April of injuries received while in police custody.

Man dies after bee attack VALLE VISTA, Ariz. A man who was stung hundreds of
times in a bee attack in western Arizona has died.

The Mohave County Sheriff's Office confirmed Friday that the man died Sunday at
a hospital in Kingman.

John Wade was watching a property in Valle Vista, a community about 14 miles
northeast of Kingman, June 12 when he was attacked by a swarm of Africanized
bees and stung 500 to 1,000 times.

Hawaii bans sea cucumber harvesting Hono lulu The Hawaii Board of Land and
Natural Resources has approved an emergency ban on the possession of sea
cucumbers amid reports that people are harvesting the animals in large
quantities for commercial purposes.

Sea cucumbers are highly prized for medicine and food in some countries.

Beaver attacks Oregon men bend, ore. A beaver protecting its dam attacked two
central Oregon men, who fell into a river and were taken to a hospital.

Sgt. William Bailey of the Deschutes County Sheriff's Office says the men were
exploring Thursday night when they climbed onto a beaver dam and got attacked by
the animal protecting its turf.

The injuries are not considered life threatening. Denver Post wire services

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (91%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); AIRCRAFT
PILOTS (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); FOREST FIRES (90%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (89%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (84%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
(78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SUICIDE (73%); DESERTS (72%);
NATIONAL PARKS (72%); CITIES (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (66%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); GOLF (65%); FESTIVALS (63%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(60%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%)

COMPANY: CINTAS CORP (53%); RENO GAZETTE JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: CTAS (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS812332 INDUSTRIAL LAUNDERERS (53%); SIC7218 INDUSTRIAL LAUNDERERS
(53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: RANDEL A FALCO (79%); DONALD TRUMP (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (92%); JUNEAU, AK, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA
(92%); RENO, NV, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (95%);
NEVADA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)
UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015


                              107 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2015 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved
                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                             June 20, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Transient killed behind library;
Second man stabbed survives altercation

BYLINE: Ana Ceballos; aceballos@montereyherald.com @ceballosap on Twitter

BODY:


ABSTRACT

monterey homicide

FULL TEXT

Monterey >> Police are on the hunt for a suspect considered to be armed and
dangerous after a male transient was stabbed to death late Thursday behind the
Monterey Public Library.

The unidentified 40-year-old was getting ready to go to sleep in an outdoor quad
area behind the library when an altercation ensued, police said. A 22-year-old
male transient was also stabbed during the fight but survived.

Police identified Jesse Quiming, 32, as the sole suspect in the double-stabbing.
Quiming is not in custody and police say he is considered armed and dangerous.
They are asking that citizens do not approach him, but instead to call 911 if
seen.

Quiming was identified as the suspect following statements from witnesses,
including the younger victim, and further investigation of the crime scene,
Monterey police Lt. Marty Hart said.

Just before midnight, a resident near the library flagged down an officer to
report a "disturbance" behind the library. Police arrived within minutes and
found the 40-year-old unconscious and not breathing. The 22-year-old sustained
non-life-threatening injuries and was talking to paramedics on his way to
Natividad Medical Center.

Monterey Fire Division Chief Stewart Rothe said the 22-year-old's hands were
also injured. The victim said the cuts were a result of him trying to defend
himself from the attacker.

A motive for the double-stabbing is not yet known, and a weapon has not been
recovered, police said.

The library was closed for about six hours on Friday as the quad area was
cleaned up and investigators collected more evidence from the scene. Droplets of
blood were splattered in an area of the library that is usually safe and
welcoming, said library director Bill Michael.

"This is our home," Michael said. "(Transients) are part of our community, they
are human beings. People may get in an argument, but never violence."

Michael said transients frequent the library just as much as kids and adults,
adding that the library "serves everyone." He said he wants to assure the
community that despite the "tragic" death late Thursday, the library, which
closes at 8 p.m. at the latest and is located directly in front of the police
and fire departments, is a "very safe place to visit."

Quiming, who has a criminal record on the Monterey Peninsula, is a transient who
frequents the Monterey area. Although he remains at large, police believe he
remains nearby.

This is the third homicide in Monterey this year. The two previous killings were
also stabbing deaths.

Anyone with information about the incident is asked to call Detective Bryan
Kurse at 646-3812.

Ana Ceballos can be reached at 726-4377.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMICIDE (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEATHS (89%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); LIBRARIES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%);
PUBLIC LIBRARIES (77%); PARAMEDICS (66%)

PUB-SUBJECT: Monterey; Homicide; Home

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015


                              108 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                                 irishmirror.ie

                      June 24, 2015 Wednesday 7:52 AM GMT

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Watch moment Dylann Roof was arrested for Charleston church shooting
rampage after 14-hour manhunt;
The man suspected of brutally killing nine innocent churchgoers can be seen
being pulled out of his car and frisked

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

BODY:

This extraordinary video shows the moment Charleston church shooting suspect
Dylann Roof was arrested by armed police.

Cops can be seen following a black car after receiving a call from somebody
suspecting that the man who allegedly killed nine innocent churchgoers was
inside.

Video footage from the officer's dashboard camera shows cops pull over the
suspected racist gunman in Shelby, North Carolina.

One officer then pulls Roof - who had been on the run for 14 hours - out of the
vehicle before he is frisked. Despite being the centre of a huge police manhunt
both the cops and Roof seem remarkably relaxed.

Eventually Roof is placed in a police car before a group of officers show their
relief by high-fiving each other.

It has since emerged that Roof was given a Burger King meal by police after his
arrest.

The confessed killer told officers who seized him he was hungry and had not
eaten since before the attack.

Police chief Jeff Ledford said they bought him food from a nearby Burger King .

"He was very quiet, very calm. He didn't talk," Ledford said. "He sat very
quietly."

Hours after shooting nine churchgoers dead, racist gunman Dylann Roof was
treated to a Burger King meal by police.

The confessed killer complained of being hungry following his arrest after
carrying out his massacre at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in
Charleston, South Carolina last Wednesday.

Charleston victims, pictured below:

Charleston Shooting Victims

After the shooting he fled in his black Hyundai car 250 miles north where he was
finally apprehended in Shelby after 14 hours on the run.

Now the police chief whose officers arrested Roof has revealed cops bought him a
Burger King meal after he said he hadn't eaten since carrying out the assault.

Jeff Ledford said the killer refused to answer any question put to him by his
staff and that the only conversation he had was about food.

Ledford said police bought him food from a nearby Burger King. "He was very
quiet, very calm. He didn't talk," Ledford said. "He sat down here very quietly.
He was not problematic."

Roof had been found with .45-calibre handgun in his car and told armed police "I
am Dylann Roof" when he was arrested.

He is reported to have shown no remorse and expressed racist views as he later
confessed to the crime to the FBI.

The gunman has since been charged with nine counts of murder and possession of a
firearm in the commission of of violent crime.

If found guilty prosecutors as well as South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley have
said they will seek the death penalty.

It comes as the relatives Roof's victim told him during his first court
appearance on Friday they forgave him for the killings.

Many have said they would not want him sent to the death chamber.

Roof is currently being held in solitary confinement, where he is under 24-hour
watch and only allowed out of his cell for 60 minutes a day.

As yet he has had no visits from his family or friends with the only person who
has talked to him has being his lawyer.

His cell is next to the one holding former cop Michael Slager - the policeman
accused of gunning down unarmed black man Walter Scott in April.

Victim's family member forgives Dylann Roof at emotional first court hearing

Roof, 21, is in cell 1141B at Charleston County Jail.

Slager, 33, who was seen on video shooting Mr Scott in the back, is in 1140B.

Sources at the Sheriff Al Cannon Detention Centre have said the two killers can
talk to each other through shouting but both have refused.

"Roof is sitting quietly in his cell and not saying a word," said the insider.

"The only person he has conversed with is his lawyer.

"It seems everyone else has washed their hands of him.

"He remains on suicide watch."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS

SUBJECT: 2015 CHARLESTON CHURCH SHOOTING (92%); RELIGION (92%); ARRESTS (92%);
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); CAPITAL
PUNISHMENT (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (78%); MURDER (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%);
PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); POLICE
FORCES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%);
CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); SHOOTINGS (58%)

PERSON: NIKKI HALEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (91%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA,
USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2015


                              109 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                              Copyright 2015 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved
                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                             May 23, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: Vol. LXIX No. 142

LENGTH: 531  words

HEADLINE: Three armed suspects guarding Dr Mirzas DHA house arrested

BYLINE: IMTIAZ ALI

BODY:

 Police on Friday claimed to have arrested three suspects outside the Defence
residence of former home minister Dr Zulfikar Mirza and booked them for
possessing illegal weapons, storming the Darakhshan police station and harassing
policemen when the disgruntled PPP leader went there to record his statement.

SSP-Central Chaudhry Asad Ali, who has been given the additional responsibility
of SSP-South, claimed that a police patrol arrested the three suspects Naik
Mohammed, Sikander Ali Brohi and Mohammed Ibrahim and seized as many unlicensed
sub-machine guns from them.

He said a case was registered against the suspects at the Darakhshan police
station and during initial investigation they "disclosed that Dr Mirza provided
them [the seized] weapons".

The SSP said that suspect Ibrahim was allegedly associated with the Lyari gang
warfare.

Talking to Dawn, Darakhshan SHO Abdul Moid said that the former home minister
would also be questioned in the light of the disclosures of the held suspects.

Earlier, several police vans besieged the residence of the former home minister
and detained three of his supporters outside his house.

Mirza planning to go abroad on 30th

Later, Dr Mirza told reporters at his residence that the police had detained his
guard, driver and a servant. The police had staged a drama outside his home by
deploying over 20 police mobile vans including armoured personnel carriers, he
said.

He alleged that a conspiracy had been hatched to kill him in police custody and
for this purpose, the task had been given to a senior police officer who would
administer him a lethal injection once he was inside an APC, which might cause
his death.

He said that the special security unit (SSU) of the police was created to fight
terrorism during his tenure as the home minister but now it had been reduced to
providing security to VIPs, their families and friends.

In an apparent reference to the alleged removal of SSP-South Tariq Dharejo and
some other police officials, Dr Mirza said that honest police officers had been
removed because they refused to arrest him.

He launched personal attacks on the chief minister of Sindh and the newly
appointed home minister and said he had got bail in all cases.

He proposed if police had any new case against him, the DIG and the SSP-South
should come to him with an arrest warrant and he would surrender to them like
any "law-abiding citizen".

Otherwise, he warned the police could not arrest him through "high-handed
tactics" as he had 30-40 guards loyal to him who were willing to sacrifice their
lives to save his.

He hoped the judiciary would provide him justice and disclosed that he was
planning to leave the country on May 30 for the treatment of his wife, former
speaker of the National Assembly Dr Fahmida Mirza, and said he would inform the
media before departure.

He said that he would visit the shrines of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Shahnawaz
Bhutto, Mir Murtaza Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto after returning from abroad and
would wage jihad by launching a mass awareness campaign.

In response to a question, he hinted at contesting next general election from
PPPs platform provided Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari assumed leadership of the party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGENCY VEHICLES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%);
ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ARREST WARRANTS
(79%); CONSPIRACY (78%); FIREARMS (78%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (73%); GANGS
(72%); TERRORISM (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) KARACHI PAKISTAN (79%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015


                              110 of 161 DOCUMENTS


       Copyright 2015 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved
                              The Bismarck Tribune

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: Slain Cincinnati officer honored

BODY:

CINCINNATI (AP) -- Police officers from around the country turned out Friday for
a slain Cincinnati officer's funeral, where city officials, family and
colleagues spoke of his devotion to duty and love for his family and his city.

Hundreds of people packed Xavier University's Cintas Center to honor 48-year-old
Officer Sonny Kim. Police say the 27-year veteran was killed June 19 by an armed
suspect who had made 911 calls and was seeking "suicide by cop." The suspect was
killed by police.

City Manager Harry Black called Kim a "true hero" and a model police officer.

Mayor John Cranley said the shooting was an act of evil.

"We have a lot of questions for God today. Our faith is being tested," Cranley
said. "Why did the good guy lose?"

Kim grew up in Chicago and moved to Cincinnati in 1986 to attend classes at the
University of Cincinnati, police said. He was appointed as a Cincinnati police
recruit and assigned to the police academy in 1987. Kim was promoted to the rank
of police officer in 1988 and received 22 commendations in his career.

Kim loved Cincinnati and its people and was proud to serve them, said his
brother, Mickey Kim.

"He was so proud to wear that uniform," he said. "He was so proud to be part of
that fraternity."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%);
DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); CITIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); SCHOOL
SAFETY & SECURITY (78%)

COMPANY: CINTAS CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: XAVIER UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (53%)

TICKER: CTAS (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS812332 INDUSTRIAL LAUNDERERS (57%); SIC7218 INDUSTRIAL LAUNDERERS
(57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015


                              111 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 2015 Newsday, Inc.

                               Newsday (New York)

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: NATION: IN BRIEF

BODY:

CALIFORNIA

Guilty in boardwalk death

A driver was convicted yesterday of second-degree murder in the death of an
Italian honeymooner on the Venice Beach boardwalk. Los Angeles County
prosecutors said Nathan Campbell, 39, was angry about a soured drug deal and
deliberately targeted vendors and tourists on the popular walkway. Campbell was
found guilty in the August 2013 death of Alice Gruppioni. Campbell was also
found guilty of 10 counts of leaving the scene of an accident and 17 counts of
assault with a deadly weapon.

ILLINOIS

Train collides with truck

An Amtrak train headed to Chicago from San Antonio slammed into a semitrailer at
a crossing near the Illinois community of Wilmington. Amtrak officials say no
serious injuries have been reported at the scene of the crash yesterday
afternoon, about 60 miles southwest of Chicago. The trailer of the truck was
overturned. The truck's cab separated from the trailer and ended up on the other
side of the train. None of the cars of the train left the track. It wasn't
immediately known how many passengers were aboard the train.

MARYLAND

Police: Armed suspect shot

A university police officer in Baltimore shot and wounded a man who was reported
to be carrying a knife on campus yesterday, authorities said. The man is being
treated at a hospital for what was believed to be a non-life-threatening injury
to a leg, a Baltimore police spokesman said. Police from the University of
Maryland, Baltimore, searched for the man after a 911 call shortly after 1 p.m.
reporting an armed person on campus. Additional 911 callers also reported seeing
a man holding a knife, Jackson said. Two uniformed university officers found the
man nearby, off campus. "He was observed openly wielding a knife," and then
reached into his waistband, police said. Officers were concerned about the knife
and believed the man might be reaching for a gun, police said, and at least one
officer fired.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); VERDICTS (90%);
HOMICIDE (90%); MURDER (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER
RAIL (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS
(90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%);
SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (74%);
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); CAMPUS SECURITY (70%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL
OPERATING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (86%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA
(94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                              112 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                 Copyright 2015 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved
                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                             June 13, 2015 Saturday
                                  Mars Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Mom killed, toddlers roam scene

BYLINE: Christian Sheckler South Bend Tribune

BODY:

MISHAWAKA -- Police found two toddlers wandering a Mishawaka street Friday
morning near the place where their mother was shot and killed during an apparent
domestic dispute moments earlier.

Lt. David Wells, assistant commander of the St. Joseph County Metro Homicide
Unit, said officers responded late Friday morning to the 1200 block of Sixth
Street, just east of Logan Street, after they received a 911 call about a
reported shooting.

There, they found a woman, later identified as 22-year-old Precious Jackson,
lying in the street with a gunshot wound. Police named 18-year-old Tyron Devon
Johnson as the suspect in the shooting.

Johnson, armed with a semi-automatic handgun, ran north from the scene, police
said. Police were trying to track him with dogs Friday afternoon. They said
Johnson should be considered armed and dangerous, and anyone who sees him should
immediately call police.

Jackson and Johnson also had a 1-month-old baby together. The two toddlers were
found standing in the street. All three children were taken into custody. The
Department of Child Services will be in charge of their placement, Wells said.

Wayne Zimmer who lives near the intersection of Sixth Street and Cleveland, said
Jackson and Johnson were walking down the street, toward Johnson's mother's
house, moments before the shooting.

Zimmer said the pair had just gotten off the Eighth Street bus and were walking
in the rain with the children in tow. He said he came outside when he heard them
arguing and watched as they continued down the street. He went back inside when
he lost sight of them.

That's when Zimmer heard several gunshots ring out. He said he ran outside and
saw Jackson lying in the street.

As police swarmed the scene, two women consoled another woman who was wailing
and sobbing, and police had McDonald's Happy Meals delivered to the scene to
feed children who were stranded inside the crime scene while their parents
waited outside the yellow tape.

Later, police guarding the crime scene turned away a man who said he was
Jackson's brother. The man angrily shouted that the suspect ran to a local
apartment complex, and demanded that police go to the complex and arrest "any
(expletive) you find."

If officially ruled a homicide, the shooting would be Mishawaka's first killing
of 2015, but it would make the 10th killing recorded in St. Joseph County this
year, according to Tribune archives, and the second fatal shooting this week.

Police are also still looking for 18-year-old Marqwan Beserra, who is suspected
in a shooting that left 21-year-old Jerry Wright dead Tuesday evening in the
2400 block of West Frederickson Street in South Bend.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%);
GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); HOMICIDE (89%);
ARRESTS (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (78%); DOGS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%);
CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015


                              113 of 161 DOCUMENTS


           Copyright 2015 El Paso Times, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved
                             El Paso Times (Texas)

                              May 18, 2015 Monday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Ex-bodyguard of former Juárez police chief arrested in execution-style
killings in 2012

BYLINE: By Daniel Borunda / El Paso Times / Follow @BorundaDaniel

BODY:

A Jucrez police officer was arrested Monday in connection with the
execution-style shooting of four people three years ago, the Chihuahua state
attorney general's office said.

Jose Luis Arreola Rodriguez, who had been a bodyguard to then Jucrez police
chief Julian Leyzaola Perez, is accused of taking part in the deaths of three
young men and a woman found April 24, 2012 near the San Rafael cemetery in the
outskirts of Jucrez, officials said in a news release.

Arreola faces four homicide charges and an attempted murder charge as part of an
investigation that officials said could lead to more arrests.

The arrest comes three days after Leyzaola, who was wounded in a May 8 shooting
in Jucrez, told the Zeta newspaper in Tijuana that a gunman told him before
pulling the trigger that the shooting was a "message" from current police chief
Jesus Antonio Reyes, who has denied the allegations.

The Chihuahua attorney general's office said that Arreola's arrest follows a
recommendation made last month by the National Commission on Human Rights asking
for an investigation into Leyzaola and the police department.

State prosecutors identified those killed in 2012 as Alejandro Martinez
Rodriguez, 16, Jesus Efrain Rodriguez Gavirio, 17, Jose Juan Villanueva Leal,
18, and Veronica Cerros Olivas, 22. Prosecutors said a woman survived by
pretending to be dead after being wounded.

The survivor told investigators that the group was detained by police officers
at a park and were beaten because one of the suspects was allegedly armed,
officials said. After being driven around, they were taken to dirt road near the
cemetery and made to kneel with their heads covered.

The survivor told investigators she heard one of the officer's say "shoot each
one three times in the head" but she was not shot because she pretended to be
dead, officials said. The woman later walked through the desert and got help at
the customs checkpoint on the Panamerican Highway.

Daniel Borunda may be reached at 546-6102.

GRAPHIC: Arreola

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%);
SHOOTINGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); MURDER (78%); HOMICIDE
(78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); DEATHS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); EXCISE &
CUSTOMS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2015


                              114 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                         Copyright 2015 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                           WeekendPost (South Africa)

                                  June 6, 2015

SECTION: CRIME, LAW & JUSTICE

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: 'Good Samaritan' gunned down trying to retrieve man's stolen bag

BYLINE: Shaun Gillham

BODY:

A DRAMATIC chase to apprehend two armed robbery suspects ended in tragedy
yesterday when a "good Samaritan" was gunned down in one of Port Elizabeth's
busiest streets.


 Deon Niemand, 43, was fatally shot in the chest while trying to stop two
robbery suspects in their tracks at about 2.10pm.
 Niemand died in the middle of the four-lane Uitenhage Road in Sydenham where he
had been in a scuffle with the men, one of whom shot him before fleeing.
 Niemand, who was yesterday hailed as a hero and a good Samaritan, had managed
to recover the stolen property which, unbeknown to the suspects, consisted of a
virtually empty laptop bag and a few rands in cash.
 The drama started just minutes before in Commercial Road, an extension of
Uitenhage Road, when a self-employed western suburbs man, George Carr, 45, had
finished conducting his business at Don's Pawn shop there.
 After leaving the shop with his laptop bag, Carr was about to get into his
vehicle when he was approached by two men, one of who attempted to grab his bag.

 A shaken Carr said he had hung onto his bag until one of the suspects produced
a handgun and thrust it into his face. "Then I just let go and hit the floor.
 "The two guys started running down the road with my bag and then jumped over a
railing to get onto Uitenhage Road," Carr said.
 There was not much in the bag as he had already made a large payment inside the
store.
 Carr said he jumped into his car and proceeded to chase the two men through
oncoming traffic down Commercial Road and into Uitenhage Road.
 Two men in a black Volkswagen Golf, who had also been at the shop, also gave
chase.
 "When I got into Uitenhage Road, I saw the two guys. I saw some other people in
a scuffle with them. I heard a shot go off.
 "It turns out that this poor man [Niemand] was driving past and saw the guys
running with the bag. He jumped out to help catch them and was shot just like
that.
 "He is a bloody hero, this guy. I am so, so very sorry that he has died. I am
still shaking inside."
 Port Elizabeth police spokesman Warrant Officer Alwin Labans said one of the
two suspects, 25, was arrested at the scene.
 He said the second suspect, who is believed to have fired the fatal shot, was
known to police and they expected to arrest him soon. Labans said an armed
robbery and a murder docket had been opened.
 According to a friend of Niemand's, Morne Lottering, 20, who was at the scene,
Niemand lived and worked at the nearby Propshaft Centre.
  He said he was "a great guy" who had spent the last few years successfully
getting his life back on track after difficult times.
 Propshaft Centre owner Jan Serfontein last night echoed Lottering's sentiments
and described Niemand as a person who was always happy and willing to help at
any time.
 ROBBED: GEORGE CARR

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Weekend

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); ROBBERY (92%); ARRESTS (89%); MURDER (78%); ARREST
WARRANTS (78%); PROPERTY CRIMES (75%); POLICE FORCES (60%)

PUB-SUBJECT: Robbery & Theft; Shooting; Murder; Unsung Heroes

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015


                              115 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.
                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                              May 18, 2015 Monday

SECTION: ; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF

BODY:

WASHINGTON TWP.

Unresponsive child pulled from pond

A young child was pulled from a pond Sunday evening at the Arbors of Yankee
Vineyards complex off Yankee Street in Washington Twp.

The incident was reported around 7:15 p.m.

According to initial reports, the child, between the ages of 3 and 5, was not
responsive and CPR was underway. The child's gender and condition were not
available, but medics took the child to Southview Medical Center, according to
the Miami Valley Regional Dispatch Center. CASSIDY BOYER

DAYTON

Gunshot victim found near crash

Police found a gunshot victim early Sunday as he was walking away from where a
car crashed into a house.

The crash happened around 2:30 a.m. in the 200 block of North Decker Avenue.

The driver apparently lost control there after being shot at in the area of West
Second Street and North Gettysburg Avenue, according to the Dayton police
report.

The man who was shot claimed he was a passenger in the vehicle when a maroon GMC
Denali pulled up beside them and opened fire.

The driver of the Chevy Impala sped away down West Second Street and eventually
crashed on North Decker. The driver fled the scene.

An officer responding was waved down by the gunshot victim as he was walking
along North Decker. His clothes were bloody as he had been shot in the buttocks.
He was taken to Miami Valley Hospital, where he was treated for a
through-and-through gunshot wound, according to the report.

The victim told police they were at a club earlier in the evening and he thinks
their vehicle was targeted because he was with a friend who had an argument the
previous weekend over a "weed phone," according to the report.

The friend who may have been targeted reportedly got into a different vehicle
than the Impala shortly after the group left the club, police noted in the
report. STAFF REPORT

FAIRBORN

Woman robs Speedway, flees

Police are seeking a woman who robbed a Speedway Sunday evening on Col. Glenn
Highway.

Police were called shortly before 5:30 p.m. to a report of an armed robbery.

The suspect was described as a woman wearing sunglasses in a black, hooded
sweatshirt, plaid cap, jeans and black sneakers. STAFF REPORT

DAYTON

1 arrested a?er shots fired

A man was arrested after shots were fired from a black Chevrolet S10 in the 2000
block of Richard Street, according to a Dayton police report.

Dayton police said no one was hit by gunfire, which was reported shortly before
1 a.m. Sunday.

The resident of a home on Richard Street told police the S10 drove by his house
threatening violence and a short time later drove by again and shots were fired,
according to the report.

The pickup truck was stopped by police on Mclain Street, where the four
occupants were told to get on the ground and later handcuffed, according to the
report.

Police said a loaded Taurus handgun was found inside the truck.

The four were taken to the police station and interviewed. Three were released,
but Jesse Ray Henry, 27, was booked into the Montgomery County Jail on suspicion
of felonious assault and weapons violations, according to police and jail
records.

STAFF REPORT

OXFORD

Help sought in finding robbers

Oxford police are asking for the public's help in apprehending two home invaders
who injured and robbed a resident in the 300 block of North Poplar Street.

Officers were called to the home around 1:30 p.m. Sunday.

Police said the resident was treated by a medic at the scene after the two
unknown white males followed the residents into their house, where a "physical
confrontation occurred."

Weapons were displayed and items taken.

To help in the investigation, call Detective Sgt. Geoff Robinson at
937-524-5258. STAFF REPORT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GUNSHOT
WOUNDS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); ARRESTS (75%);
TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); ROBBERY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2015


                              116 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            June 24, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: KANPUR

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Robbers strike in Kasganj, beat two to death

BODY:

KANPUR: Two persons guarding a mango orchard were mercilessly beaten to death by
suspected "Kachcha-Baniyan" gang in Kasganj district.

The accused were armed with 'lathis' and attacked one Prem Singh and Virendra,
in Ziyauddin village. A posse of policemen reached the spot on being informed
regarding the incident. An offence was registered and investigations were
started by the police.

Police said the robbers, possibly members of "Kachcha-Baniyan" gang, mercilessly
beat to death Prem Singh and Virendra and injured two others while they were
guarding the mango orchard in Ziyauddin village late on Sunday night. The
robbers escaped with cash and mobile phones belonging to the deceased.

The police said the incident took place at Ziyauddin village close to Bilgram
road around 3 am. The robbers were wearing brief and vest due to which it is
suspected that they were members of the notorious "Kachcha Baniyan" gang.

"As per the two other injured people, identified as Hakim and Lal Singh, the
robbers more than six in number. They were wearing brief and vest, and were
armed with sticks and beat up the victims mercilessly," said a police officer.

"Most of the victims sustained head injuries. The criminals were demanding cash
which the victims had possibly collected after selling mango yield," said the
officer.

The robbers escaped with the booty including cash and mobile phones besides
other valuable belongings after being on rampage for over an hour. "Most victims
were unconscious and severely bleeding. One of them informed the police
following which a team was rushed there," said the officer.

The officer added that all the victims were rushed to the district Hospital
where two of the victims, Prem Singh and Virendra, succumbed to injuries. The
injured include Hakim and Lal Singh and both are undergoing treatment.

The police claimed to have arrested two suspects from near Radha Swami ashram on
Monday afternoon. One among them has been identified as Asghar, a native of
Hapur district. The police have also recovered a country-made firearm and an
iron rod from their possession.

"A separate police team has been rushed to various places in search of the other
robbers. We hope to identify and arrest them soon," said SP Vinay Kumar Yadav.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ROBBERY (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES
(89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); HEAD INJURIES (73%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (89%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2015


                              117 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                             May 27, 2015 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Ex-L.A. officer held in Mexico;
Henry Solis is accused of shooting a man to death in Pomona before fleeing the
U.S.

BYLINE: Kate Mather, Marisa Gerber, Matt Hamilton

BODY:

A two-month manhunt for a former LAPD officer accused of murder ended Tuesday
when the 27-year-old was arrested in Mexico, authorities said.

Chihuahua state authorities said Henry Solis resisted arrest, but no shots were
fired when he was apprehended in Juarez, across the Rio Grande from El Paso.

Solis told authorities he knew his capture was coming "sooner or later," Mexican
officials said at a news conference.

One state police official said Solis was "hidden among relatives" in the

El Mezquital neighborhood where he was arrested.

The official, Pablo Ernesto Rocha Acosta, didn't give specifics about what led
investigators to the neighborhood, saying only that Solis' capture was the
result of technology, field work and the exchange of information with United
States authorities.

Solis was deported to the U.S. on Tuesday evening and will be held in federal
custody in El Paso, according to FBI spokeswoman Laura Eimiller.

Solis had been the target of an international manhunt after a warrant was issued
for his arrest, alleging that he shot and killed Salome Rodriguez Jr. in
downtown Pomona while off-duty during the early morning hours of March 13.

In the days that followed, Solis was fired from the Los Angeles Police
Department and his father charged with lying to federal investigators about his
son's whereabouts.

On Tuesday, Rodriguez's mother welcomed the news of Solis' arrest.

Lidia Rodriguez said she had kept a nightly vigil in the parking lot where her
wounded son collapsed, praying federal agents would find the man accused of
killing him.

"If it's true he got caught, hallelujah!" she said. "We think this is God's
work."

Solis, a former Marine who served a tour in combat in Iraq had spent nine months
with the LAPD before authorities allege that he became involved in some kind of
dispute with Rodriguez at a Pomona bar, then chased him and shot him.

Coroner's officials said Rodriguez, a 23-year-old truck driver, was shot four
times.

Solis didn't show up for work the day after the shooting, Los Angeles police
officials said.

That night, Pomona police had publicly identified him as a person of interest in
the investigation of the killing, circulating fliers with his photo and
information about his missing car.

Meanwhile, authorities allege Solis made "incriminating statements" about the
shooting and vowed he "would never be seen again," according to documents filed
in federal court.

Solis had ditched his Volkswagen Jetta a few blocks from the shooting and called
his father for help, authorities said.

Victor Solis left his Lancaster home the morning of March 13 and drove with his
son 800 miles to El Paso, where he told authorities he dropped the younger Solis
off at a bus stop, according to court records.

But surveillance footage showed Victor Solis walking with his son across the
border into Mexico, authorities said.

The father was later arrested and charged with lying to federal investigators in
an attempt to help hide his son.

Last week, a federal judge released Victor Solis on $10,000 bail.

Soon after the shooting, Pomona police formally identified Henry Solis as the
suspect in the killing, describing him as armed and dangerous.

The FBI offered a $25,000 reward for information leading to his arrest.

Explaining his swift decision to fire the probationary officer, LAPD Chief
Charlie Beck said Solis had "dishonored" the department, his country and his
family, and should turn himself in to "face the consequences."

Friends and family said they were baffled by the allegations, recalling a driven
yet easy-going man who had a deep sense of pride in his job as a Los Angeles
police officer.

Solis had an "unremarkable" history and no disciplinary issues with the LAPD,
officials said.

On Tuesday, Rodriguez's mother said she was grateful for her son's many friends
who shared Solis' picture on social media, both in the United States and Mexico.

Lidia Rodriguez said she still dreams of her son.

She found strength, she said, in her desire to see the day Solis would be
caught. Now, she said, she hopes for a trial.

"The first day, I'll be there," she said. "I want him to see my family and who
he killed."

--

kate.mather@latimes.com

marisa.gerber@latimes.com

matt.hamilton@latimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SURVEILLANCE FOOTAGE provided by the FBI shows former LAPD
Officer Henry Solis, right, crossing the border into Mexico with his father,
Victor.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Associated Press PHOTO: HENRY SOLIS was captured in Juarez
after a two-month manhunt.  PHOTOGRAPHER:/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (95%); POLICE FORCES (92%); MURDER (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
FORCES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS
(90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES
(78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); PRESS
CONFERENCES (76%); MISCONDUCT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PARKING SPACES
& FACILITIES (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); DEPORTATION (54%)

PUB-SUBJECT: LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT; POLICE MISCONDUCT; FUGITIVES;
ARRESTS; MURDERS

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (94%);
CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2015


                              118 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Los Angeles Times

                             May 27, 2015 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Ex-L.A. officer held in Mexico;
Henry Solis is accused of shooting a man to death in Pomona before fleeing the
U.S.

BYLINE: Kate Mather, Marisa Gerber, Matt Hamilton

BODY:

A two-month manhunt for a former LAPD officer accused of murder ended Tuesday
when the 27-year-old was arrested in Mexico, authorities said.

Chihuahua state authorities said Henry Solis resisted arrest, but no shots were
fired when he was apprehended in Juarez, across the Rio Grande from El Paso.

Solis told authorities he knew his capture was coming "sooner or later," Mexican
officials said at a news conference.

One state police official said Solis was "hidden among relatives" in the

El Mezquital neighborhood where he was arrested.

The official, Pablo Ernesto Rocha Acosta, didn't give specifics about what led
investigators to the neighborhood, saying only that Solis' capture was the
result of technology, field work and the exchange of information with United
States authorities.

Solis was deported to the U.S. on Tuesday evening and will be held in federal
custody in El Paso, according to FBI spokeswoman Laura Eimiller.

Solis had been the target of an international manhunt after a warrant was issued
for his arrest, alleging that he shot and killed Salome Rodriguez Jr. in
downtown Pomona while off-duty during the early morning hours of March 13.

In the days that followed, Solis was fired from the Los Angeles Police
Department and his father charged with lying to federal investigators about his
son's whereabouts.

On Tuesday, Rodriguez's mother welcomed the news of Solis' arrest.

Lidia Rodriguez said she had kept a nightly vigil in the parking lot where her
wounded son collapsed, praying federal agents would find the man accused of
killing him.

"If it's true he got caught, hallelujah!" she said. "We think this is God's
work."

Solis, a former Marine who served a tour in combat in Iraq had spent nine months
with the LAPD before authorities allege that he became involved in some kind of
dispute with Rodriguez at a Pomona bar, then chased him and shot him.

Coroner's officials said Rodriguez, a 23-year-old truck driver, was shot four
times.

Solis didn't show up for work the day after the shooting, Los Angeles police
officials said.

That night, Pomona police had publicly identified him as a person of interest in
the investigation of the killing, circulating fliers with his photo and
information about his missing car.

Meanwhile, authorities allege Solis made "incriminating statements" about the
shooting and vowed he "would never be seen again," according to documents filed
in federal court.

Solis had ditched his Volkswagen Jetta a few blocks from the shooting and called
his father for help, authorities said.

Victor Solis left his Lancaster home the morning of March 13 and drove with his
son 800 miles to El Paso, where he told authorities he dropped the younger Solis
off at a bus stop, according to court records.

But surveillance footage showed Victor Solis walking with his son across the
border into Mexico, authorities said.

The father was later arrested and charged with lying to federal investigators in
an attempt to help hide his son.

Last week, a federal judge released Victor Solis on $10,000 bail.

Soon after the shooting, Pomona police formally identified Henry Solis as the
suspect in the killing, describing him as armed and dangerous.

The FBI offered a $25,000 reward for information leading to his arrest.

Explaining his swift decision to fire the probationary officer, LAPD Chief
Charlie Beck said Solis had "dishonored" the department, his country and his
family, and should turn himself in to "face the consequences."

Friends and family said they were baffled by the allegations, recalling a driven
yet easy-going man who had a deep sense of pride in his job as a Los Angeles
police officer.

Solis had an "unremarkable" history and no disciplinary issues with the LAPD,
officials said.

On Tuesday, Rodriguez's mother said she was grateful for her son's many friends
who shared Solis' picture on social media, both in the United States and Mexico.

Lidia Rodriguez said she still dreams of her son.

She found strength, she said, in her desire to see the day Solis would be
caught. Now, she said, she hopes for a trial.

"The first day, I'll be there," she said. "I want him to see my family and who
he killed."

--

kate.mather@latimes.com

marisa.gerber@latimes.com

matt.hamilton@latimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SURVEILLANCE FOOTAGE provided by the FBI shows former LAPD
Officer Henry Solis, right, crossing the border into Mexico with his father,
Victor.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Associated Press PHOTO: HENRY SOLIS was captured in Juarez
after a two-month manhunt.  PHOTOGRAPHER:/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (95%); POLICE FORCES (92%); MURDER (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
FORCES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS
(90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES
(78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); PRESS
CONFERENCES (76%); MISCONDUCT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PARKING SPACES
& FACILITIES (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); DEPORTATION (54%)

PUB-SUBJECT: LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT; POLICE MISCONDUCT; FUGITIVES;
ARRESTS; MURDERS

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (94%);
CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2015


                              119 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 The Buffalo News
                              All Rights Reserved
                          The Buffalo News (New York)

                            June 24, 2015 Wednesday
                              Buffalo News Edition

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 760 words

BODY:

Infant found not breathing dies later in hospital

NIAGARA FALLS - A 5-month-old boy died Tuesday at Niagara Falls Memorial Medical
Center after he was discovered not breathing in a 24th Street home, police said.

Niagara Falls police and firefighters responded to the home just before 11 a.m.,
Capt. Michael Trane said. The boy was rushed by Rural/Metro Medical Services to
the hospital where he was pronounced dead, Trane said.

The death is under investigation and the cause is unknown, police said. An
autopsy will be performed Wednesday by the Erie County Medical Examiner's
Office.

Alleged bail jumper faces extradition hearing

LOCKPORT - A Niagara Falls man is scheduled for an extradition hearing July 7
after being indicted on a murder charge in Los Angeles.

Kevin W. Jones, 48, appeared before Niagara County Judge Matthew J. Murphy III
Tuesday and asked for a hearing rather than conceding he is the wanted man. He
is charged with a homicide that occurred March 23.

Assistant District Attorney John P. Granchelli said Jones was arrested by
Niagara Falls police May 1 on a bail-jumping charge, connected to a 2011
criminal mischief arrest.

The Buffalo News reported that on Dec. 9, 2011, Jones was charged with
third-degree criminal mischief, resisting arrest and obstructing governmental
administration after he allegedly threw a small dresser through the front window
of his mother's house on LaSalle Avenue after barricading himself inside; he was
intoxicated at the time.

Asked where Jones was between then and May 1 of this year, Assistant Public
Defender Michael E. Benedict said he wouldn't answer that question at this time.
The bail-jumping charge is due to be presented to a local grand jury while the
criminal mischief case is pending in Niagara Falls City Court, with the next
appearance scheduled for July 15. Jones is being held without bail in Niagara
County Jail.

Officer's Tim Hortons stop leads to two drug arrests

NIAGARA FALLS - Police scored more than doughnuts at a Tim Hortons drive-through
Monday, after they learned that passengers in a car in front of them were
carrying drugs.

An officer pulled up to the window just after midnight Tuesday in the 2400 block
of Pine Avenue and was informed by a clerk that the passenger in the car in
front of them had a bag full of marijuana in his lap.

Police caught up to the car and pulled the driver over for not wearing a
seatbelt.

A search of the vehicle found a backpack with a digital scale disguised as a
cellphone, marijuana, multiple narcotic pills and wrapped baggies containing
heroin.

The passenger, Maurice E. Betton, 21, of 22nd Street, was charged with
fifth-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance and use of drug
paraphernalia. The driver, Matthew Gulley IV, of Pine Avenue, was charged with
seventh-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance, possession of
marijuana and a vehicle and traffic violation.

Armed intruder robs, beats man in 2nd-floor bedroom

NIAGARA FALLS - A Niagara Falls man was beaten and robbed by an armed attacker
who had climbed in the victim's house through a second-floor window.

The 24-year-old victim told police Monday that a man armed with a handgun had
climbed through his unsecured second-story bedroom window in the 1700 block of
Elmwood Avenue at 3:20 a.m.

The victim said the intruder tried to choke him and then put the gun to his
head, demanding money and his cellphone. He handed over $400 in cash and a $300
cellphone. He said the suspect hit him in the head multiple times with the
handgun, then jumped out of the window and fled.

The victim said he was able to find someone to drive him to Niagara Falls
Memorial Medical Center, where he was treated for cuts and swelling and then
released. The victim told police he believes the man may have stacked garbage
cans to climb into the window and officers found three garbage cans underneath
the window with blood on the siding, as well as a large amount of blood in the
bedroom.

Falls man faces 2½ years after plea on crack sales

LOCKPORT - A Niagara Falls 19-year-old may head to prison for as long as 2½
years after pleading guilty Tuesday to selling crack Jan. 8 in that
city.Dartanyon T. Robinson of Pine Avenue admitted to fifth-degree criminal sale
of a controlled substance and was scheduled for sentencing Aug. 25 by Niagara
County Judge Matthew J. Murphy III.

The drug deal with a police informant occurred near the corner of 17th Street
and Pine Avenue, Assistant District Attorney Laura T. Bittner said. Robinson
agreed to repay $120 to the Niagara County Drug Task Force.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); ARRESTS (90%); DEATHS
(90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME
(89%); BAIL (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (88%); ILLEGAL
DRUGS (85%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (77%); VEHICLE SEARCH (77%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (77%); MURDER
(76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); HOMICIDE (76%); INDICTMENTS (75%); EVIDENCE (75%);
COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); GRAND JURY (75%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (74%); PHYSICIANS &
SURGEONS (73%); CANNABIS (72%); MARIJUANA (69%); JUDGES (69%); CORRECTIONS
(67%); HEROIN (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: TIM HORTONS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES
(53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2015


                              120 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: Fontana narcotics officer shoots Encino man, condition unknown

BYLINE: Doug Saunders

BODY:

FONTANA >> An undercover narcotics detective is on paid administrative leave
after the shooting of an Encino man on Wednesday.

Police spokeswoman Martha Guzman-Hurtado said she didn t know if the officer
-involved shooting was fatal.

Shortly before 2 p.m., detectives found themselves on a follow-up investigation
of a drug-dealing case in the 6300 block of Yarmouth Avenue in Encino,
Guzman-Hurtado said in a news release.

The suspect jumped in a car and fled, she said. During the pursuit the suspect
crashed and ran again from officers.

Officers chased the suspect on foot into the rear yard of a residence at which
time an officer-involved shooting occurred,  the release said.  The suspect was
struck by gunfire and transported to an area hospital.

Guzman-Hurtado didn t know if the suspect was armed.

That is all the information we have right now,  she said in an email.  Updates
to the press release will be issued as new information becomes available. This
is an ongoing investigation and all the details are not in.

The Los Angeles Police Department is handling the shooting investigation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (90%); CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%);
ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015


                              121 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: Fontana narcotics officer shoots Encino man, condition unknown

BYLINE: Doug Saunders

BODY:

FONTANA >> An undercover narcotics detective is on paid administrative leave
after the shooting of an Encino man on Wednesday.

Police spokeswoman Martha Guzman-Hurtado said she didn t know if the officer
-involved shooting was fatal.

Shortly before 2 p.m., detectives found themselves on a follow-up investigation
of a drug-dealing case in the 6300 block of Yarmouth Avenue in Encino,
Guzman-Hurtado said in a news release.

The suspect jumped in a car and fled, she said. During the pursuit the suspect
crashed and ran again from officers.

Officers chased the suspect on foot into the rear yard of a residence at which
time an officer-involved shooting occurred,  the release said.  The suspect was
struck by gunfire and transported to an area hospital.

Guzman-Hurtado didn t know if the suspect was armed.

That is all the information we have right now,  she said in an email.  Updates
to the press release will be issued as new information becomes available. This
is an ongoing investigation and all the details are not in.

The Los Angeles Police Department is handling the shooting investigation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (90%); CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%);
ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015


                              122 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               May 4, 2015 Monday

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry after arrest death

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

BODY:

A 31-year-old man has died and a police officer has been injured as officers
tried to arrest a suspect armed with a knife.

Police Scotland immediately referred yesterday's incident in Kirkcaldy, Fife, to
the independent investigations body as a senior officer described the incident
as a tragic set of circumstances.

The Police Investigations and Review Commissioner (PIRC), which examines the
most serious of complaints against the police, is now leading an inquiry into
the matter.

Police said the female officer was not stabbed, although her condition was not
known last night.

Fife Divisional Commander Chief Superintendent Garry McEwan said: "This is a
tragic set of circumstances and my condolences go to the man's family. The
investigation of deaths is the responsibility of Crown Office and Procurator
Fiscal Service, who have instructed the Police Investigations and Review
Commissioner to lead on this inquiry." PIRC Kate Frame, a former prosecutor,
previously lead the division of the Crown Office that deals with police
complaints.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
(90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCOTLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015


                              123 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Victoria Advocate
                           Victoria Advocate (Texas)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             May 16, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: SWAT team searches home, arrests 3 suspects

BYLINE: Carolina Astrain, Victoria Advocate, Texas

BODY:

May 16--Victoria police deployed their SWAT team members and an armored
protection vehicle Friday morning to arrest three men suspected in a string of
crimes involving home invasions, controlled substances, theft and the possession
of stolen property.

The heavy equipment along with the smoke distraction devices attracted the
attention of several neighbors as police converged on a home at 8 a.m. in the
3900 block of North Main Street.

Richard Willetts, who lives in the neighborhood, said he was on his way to Inez
when his wife called him about a mattress burning on the lawn next door.

"There was an armored car and police walking all around," Willetts said.

Willetts' son, Griffin Milberger, arrived with his father on the scene as the
military-style tank was pulling out of their neighbor's driveway.

"They blew out almost every window in the facility, and it's barely a
two-bedroom cabin," said Milberger. "They (the SWAT team members) do a good job;
they're very quick and efficient."

Victoria police were looking for stolen property linked to several crimes in the
Victoria area, along with recent home invasion robberies that occurred earlier
this week, according to a Victoria Police Department statement issued Friday.

Arrested were:--Damien Zuniga, 17, on suspicion of possession of stolen
property, possession of less than 1 gram of a controlled substance and
possession of less than 2 ounces of marijuana.

--Christopher Lee Gutierrez, 33, on suspicion of theft of property worth less
than $500, the manufacturing and delivery of less than 200 grams of a controlled
substance penalty and three outstanding traffic warrants.

--Henry Garcia Jr., 17, on suspicion of possession of stolen property.

The suspects are connected to at least five crimes in Victoria, and they could
possibly be charged with additional crimes, according to the police statement.

Detective Tanya Brown, a police spokeswoman, said officers took the extra
precaution of the armored vehicle and SWAT members because of "the nature of
offenses the suspects committed, the violence used during the commission of the
offenses (home invasion robberies) and the fact the suspects were believed to be
armed."

She said serving the search warrant was considered high-risk with the three
suspects.

Brown said she could not say whether the men were connected to a reported theft
and non-fatal shooting in Bloomington.

Lt. Thomas Eisman of the Victoria Sheriff's Office said Friday that he would not
comment about the Bloomington incident, which occurred late Wednesday night.

___ (c)2015 Victoria Advocate (Victoria, Texas) Visit Victoria Advocate
(Victoria, Texas) at www.victoriaadvocate.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VI

SUBJECT: PROPERTY CRIMES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (90%); RECEIVING STOLEN
PROPERTY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SEARCH WARRANTS (89%); ROBBERY (89%);
ARRESTS (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); SHERIFFS (78%);
SEARCH & SEIZURE (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); HOUSE ARREST
(78%); MARIJUANA (77%); CANNABIS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); SHOOTINGS (60%)

INDUSTRY: General

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2015


                              124 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Ghanaian Chronicle (Accra)

                                  May 28, 2015

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Afoko Defends Afoko in Court

BYLINE: Maame Agyeiwaa Agyei

BODY:

The counsel for the 50 year old Gregory Afoko, brother of New Patriotic Party's
(NPP) National Chairman, Paul Afoko, yesterday argued in court that, the
latter's name should be removed from the Police Fact Sheet.

According to Afoko's Counsel, Ekow Ampah Korsah, his client was a citizen of
Ghana with sound mind and of full legal age, who can sue and be sued and,
therefore, there was no need for his brother's name to be attached to his. He
told the court that, he did not understand why the Police should attach his
brother's name, saying there was no need to attach him as a third party.

He further described attaching Paul Afoko's name in the charge sheet as
prejudicial which should be removed. This generated heated argument between the
prosecution and the defendants for some time. The Prosecutor, Superintendent
Francis Baah, also argued that Paul Afoko's name cannot be removed because at
that material moment, that was part of the facts they have gathered.

The judge, however, declined the request that Paul Afoko's name should not be in
the charge sheet, saying at that moment, the prosecutor has to present the facts
as it is.

Meanwhile, the Magistrate court, presided over by Worlanyo Kotoku, refused the
bail application submitted by the defend counsel.

Gregory Afoko was remanded into Police custody to reappear on June 9, 2015, for
his alleged role in the assassination of Adam Mahama, the party's Upper East
Regional Chairman. He was arraigned before the court at about 11:15 am to face
charges of Conspiracy to commit crime and murder yesterday. Meanwhile Asabke
Alangdi, the other suspect is currently at large.

Background

Gregory Afoko was arrested by the police following the death of Mahama Adams,
the late Upper East regional chairman of the NPP. He and one other, Asabke
Alangdi, were said to have been named by the deceased as the persons who poured
substance believed to be acid on him.

Gregory Afoko appeared at the court premises at about 11:12 am with two police
officers holding his arms, whilst still in handcuff. He bowed down to avoid the
media from taking pictures of him when walking to the court room and his face
was covered after the court.

Both families of Afoko and the late Mahama Adams were present in court, whilst
the latter's family were clad in mourning cloths. He has been charged with
murder. Adam Mahama was attacked by two persons last Thursday. Gregory Afoko was
subsequently arrested in connection with the attack but the other accomplice is
on the run.

Facts

The deceased, Adams Mahama, until his untimely death, was a contractor and the
Upper East Regional Chairman of the New Patriotic Party (NPP). First suspect,
Gregory Afoko is a farmer, an NPP youth activist and a younger brother to Mr.
Paul Afoko, National Chairman of the same party whiles the 2nd suspect, Asabke
Alangdi is also a party member.

During the early part of May, 2015, Mr. Paul Afoko and Kwabena Aygepong,
National Chairman and General Secretary respectively of the NPP embarked on a
tour. On 14th day of May, 2015, the National Chairman and General Secretary
arrived in Bolgatanga. The deceased organized some thugs to violently attack
them scuttling the planned meeting at Azumsolom Guest House for campaigning
against the flagbearer, Nana Addo Danquah Akuffo Addo and also not notifying
him.

The situation was later brought under control by the Police. First suspect was
not impressed with the action taken by the regional chairman, as a result had
serious confrontation with the deceased until he was chased away by the thugs.
Later 1st and 2nd suspects mobilized some youth to form another group with their
sole aim to protect party executives perceived to be against Nana Akuffo Addo's
bid.

The suspects and other members had series of meetings and in the evening of 20th
May 2015, two assailants now identified as 1st and 2nd suspects armed with a
substance in a gallon suspected to be acid, laid ambush at the deceased
residence. The deceased returned home around 11: 00pm in his pick-up vehicle
with registration number NR 761-14 immediately he parked the vehicle in front of
his, suspects went close, signaled him to roll down the glass. The deceased
identified the suspects as party members, rolled down the glass to talk to them.

Suddenly, the suspects poured the substance suspected to be acid on his head,
face and other parts of his body and fled on a motorbike. The deceased started
screaming for help and his wife, Hajia Zenabu Adams, came to the aid of the
husband and managed to bring him out of the vehicle. In the process she
sustained burns on the right side of the chest and breast.

The wife enquired to know what happened to him and he told her that it was the
1st and 2nd suspects who poured the substance on him. The deceased who could not
withstand the pains was still shouting and started removing his clothes. This
attracted the attention of the neighbors who took him to the Upper East Regional
Hospital. Deceased repeatedly mentioned the names of 1st and 2 suspects as the
perpetrators to the neighbors and friends who came to his aid and rushed him to
the hospital.

While the deceased was being prepared to be airlifted to Accra for intensive
care, he was pronounced dead. During investigations, the 1st suspect was
arrested in his house and when asked to lead to lead Police to the house of the
2nd suspect he rather took them to the father's house.

Police later located the house of 2nd suspect who had got wind of their presence
and absconded with his wife leaving behind their baby. A gallon which contains
some of the substance and a plastic cup were retrieved at the scene for forensic
examination. Post mortem examination was conducted on the body of the deceased
and the Pathologist gave the cause of death as Shock Lungs and Extensive Acid
burns. However, investigation is still ongoing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

SUBJECT: MURDER (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); TESTIMONY
(78%); LITIGATION (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); ARRESTS (77%); CONSPIRACY (74%);
BAIL (73%); FAMILY (69%)

PUB-SUBJECT: Ghana; Legal and Judicial Affairs

GEOGRAPHIC: GHANA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015


                              125 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SECTION: FEATURES; OFFERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: A polished look at the Met - but is it the whole story?;
Last night on television

BYLINE: Paul Kendall

BODY:

The Met (BBC One), the first episode of a new series about the Metropolitan
Police, was meant to be a fly-on-the-wall documentary. And yet it was so
skilfully constructed that it felt more like a high-end drama, boasting the
multistranded structure of acclaimed cop show The Wire and the acutely observed
backroom politics of The West Wing.

The first part of the episode introduced us to Andy and Sarah from the force's
armed SC&019 unit. The second saw senior officers planning their media response
to the inquest into the death of Mark Duggan, the gang member whose death at the
hands of a firearms officer sparked the nationwide riots of August 2011.

We then saw the aftermath of that inquest, a controversial verdict of "lawful
killing", during which tensions between protesters and police threatened to
explode into violence once again. The cameras then moved to a fiery public
meeting involving representatives of the black community, before a final thread
took us to a potentially combustible street party in Brixton.

This dramatic construction certainly made for good television. There was a
tangible sense of trepidation during a raid on a flat belonging to an armed
suspect, and during the protests following the end of the inquest, when the
cameras roamed in and out of a hostile crowd in front of Tottenham police
station.

You also felt you were being given valuable insights into the work of the police
- not just the undeniably difficult job of the firearms officers, whose
splitsecond decisions are held up to intense scrutiny, but also the Met's
ongoing struggle to gain the trust of black Londoners, many of whom feel they
have been demonised for decades.

The section in which officers took preemptive action before the Brixton street
party - unearthing knives that had been hidden in trees, locking up key gang
members on minor charges so they were off the street - could have come straight
out of The Wire, which revelled in the canny police work of experienced cops in
the gangster-ridden housing projects of Baltimore.

But one can't help thinking the person who will be most pleased with this
polished product will be Met commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe. Frustrated by
years of negative publicity and wary of his force's relationship with
journalists following the Leveson inquiry, he has said he decided to open his
doors to the BBC so the public could understand what the Met does.

It was a huge risk, but seeing the intense way in which officers planned their
media strategy prior to the Duggan verdict, you can't help feeling that
Hogan-Howe knew exactly what he was doing. Each member of the force in that
scene was shown to be thoughtful and committed. Would the BBC have been granted
access if a certain level of control had not been agreed first?

How to be Bohemian (BBC Four), an entertaining history of "painters, poets,
pioneers and provocateurs", contained characters aplenty. There was French
writer Gérard de Nerval who used to walk his pet lobster through the streets of
Paris, textile designer William Morris, who lived in a love triangle with his
wife Jane and the Pre-Raphaelite painter Rossetti, and, of course, Oscar Wilde,
a man who revelled in shocking the middle classes. But the real star of the show
was its presenter, Victoria Coren Mitchell who lent the programme (the first of
three) the right tone with a combination of witty aperçus and thoughtful
commentary.

There is something inherently laughable about the early Bohemians - the friends
of Théophile Gautier became famous in 19th century Paris for their naked garden
parties - and Coren Mitchell was very much alive to this. ("I imagine everyone
had a lovely time but nobody wanted to hold the lobster," she said of the garden
parties.)

But Bohemianism was also a deadly serious movement, a challenge to the received
wisdoms of the ruling elite, and the source of important art, so the jokes often
gave way to sincere editorialising.

"If you live a fully conventional life," Coren Mitchell said at one point, "it's
much easier to disapprove of someone who doesn't than to wonder if they are
happier than you are."

The other point to make about Coren Mitchell is her enthusiasm. She seemed
genuinely thrilled to be talking to the programme's contributors - from the
writer Will Self to the painter Maggi Hambling. She even managed a smile during
her conversation with the insufferable Rev Richard Coles.

The Met ****

How to Be Bohemia ****

GRAPHIC: You're under arrest: Bernard Hogan-Howe apprehends a suspect in 'The
Met'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); RIOTS (73%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (69%); RACE & RACISM (67%); WRITERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) National Edition

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015


                              126 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.

                             Daily News (New York)

                              May 24, 2015 Sunday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: CLEVELAND IRE Cop's acquittal in killings sparks protests

BYLINE: BY MELISSA CHAN and DEBORAH HASTINGS NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

BODY:

THE ACQUITTAL Saturday of a white Cleveland cop for firing the final blasts of a
137-shot police barrage that killed two unarmed blacks ignited instant outrage
and protests.

Demonstrators seething over the acquittal of Officer Michael Brelo, 31, flooded
the streets following the verdict - leading to dozens of arrests.

As darkness cloaked the city, groups of protesters clashed with officers in riot
gear.

Demonstrators also got into a fight with patrons at a downtown restaurant.

Three people were led away in handcuffs and charged with felony assault and
aggravated riot, authorities said.

A fourth person was charged with assault after throwing an unknown object
through a window and injuring a female patron.

By early Sunday, cops had arrested roughly 40 people, including a reporter for
Northeast Ohio Media Group.

Brelo, 31, was the only one of the 13 officers who opened fire to face criminal
charges in the November 2012 incident - and a Cleveland judge found him not
guilty in the bench trial.

Prosecutors charged Brelo unloaded 49 shots, including a 15-bullet fusillade
while standing on the hood of the car and blasting through the windshield at
victims Timothy Russell, 43, and Malissa Williams, 30.

Brelo wept, held his head in his hands and occasionally made the sign of the
cross as Judge John O'Donnell found him not guilty.

The shooting followed a 62-car, 100 mph chase that one prosecutor said looked
like a clip from the movie "The Blues Brothers." The chase was triggered in
downtown Cleveland after cops reacted to what they believed was a gunshot, but
was instead Russell's Chevy Malibu backfiring.

For more than 20 miles, the phalanx of cops chased Russell's 1979 Malibu. The
officers unloaded on the vehicle after finally cornering it.

Russell was shot 23 times, and Williams was struck by 24 bullets. Neither victim
was armed. Inside the vehicle, investigators discovered a crack pipe.

Judge John O'Donnell acknowledged that Brelo fired lethal shots at the victims
but ruled that the evidence didn't prove his shots caused either death.

Russell's family blasted the judge's decision.

"Fleeing is not grounds for death," the family said in a statement. "The
exoneration of Officer Brelo speaks to a complete disregard for the extreme and
unnecessary force meted out against some American citizens who happen to be
black and brown."

More than 200 angry but mostly peaceful protesters immediately took to the
Cleveland streets, some carrying signs asking, "Will I be next?"

The demonstrators marched through the city's downtown - at times squaring off
with cops.

Three protesters were handcuffed and taken into police custody near Quicken
Loans Arena.

Officers held up pepper spray as protesters surged toward those who had been
arrested, but tensions quickly cooled.

Racial tensions in Cleveland were already strained by the killing six months ago
of Tamir Rice, a 12-year-old black boy shot to death by a rookie white cop. The
preteen was carrying a pellet gun.

GRAPHIC: Protester in chains blocks intersection in Cleveland. Fury over not
guilty verdict of white cop in shooting deaths of two black motorists who were
unarmed led to arrests (inset). Michael Brelo (below) stood on hood and fired 15
shots at Timothy Russell (top, r.) and Malissa Williams, but was acquitted of
manslaughter. AP; EPA

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACQUITTAL (91%); RIOTS (90%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); GUNSHOT
WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); VERDICTS (90%);
ARRESTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); JUDGES (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%);
FELONIES (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%);
INVESTIGATIONS (73%); COCAINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015


                              127 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                            Copyright 2015 Press TV
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                                    Press TV

                             June 23, 2015 Tuesday

LENGTH: 176  words

HEADLINE: Man shot, killed by US police officers

BODY:

US police officers have shot and killed a man in Citrus Heights, Sacramento
County, California, authorities say.

The shooting happened at the Greenback Manor apartment complex on the 7500 block
of Greenback Lane on Monday and the victim was an armed suspect.

The officers arrived at the complex after they had received a call reporting
domestic violence between a man and woman at the apartment.

The suspect with a handgun started firing at the officers, who returned fire,
striking and killing the 35-year-old man.

Police have not released any information about how many shots were fired or how
many hit the man, who fathered three children.

Witnesses said they had heard multiple gunshots but no officer was injured.

On average, 87 people die each day as a function of gun violence in the US, with
an average of 183 injured, according to the University of Chicago Crime Lab and
the Centers for Disease Control.

The Gun Violence Archive shows that more than 5,000 people have been killed and
over 10,000 injured by gun in the country since January 1, 2015.

AT/AGB

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Wire

JOURNAL-CODE: 701

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); FIREARMS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); DOMESTIC
OFFENSES (76%); FORENSICS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (71%);
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC
LABORATORIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%)
UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2015


                              128 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                         Copyright 2015 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               The Representative

                                  May 22, 2015
                           the representative Edition

SECTION: CRIME, LAW & JUSTICE

LENGTH: 350  words

HEADLINE: Crime in the Queenstown police area

BYLINE: Zolile Menzelwa

BODY:

By
 A 40-YEAR-old man appeared in the Cofimvaba Magistrate's Court last Friday on
charges relating to the rape and murder of a 65-year-old woman from Lalini
administrative area in St Marks.


 The Rep reported (Police seek killer of two," May 15) that Nomathamsanqa Mabona
was found in a pool of blood outside her home by her grandchild.
  This week, police spokesman warrant officer Namhla Mdleleni said Siyolo
Ntlabezo was arrested last Thursday in Cala. "The deceased sustained wounds and
had been raped. A case of rape and murder was opened."
 The case has been postponed to June 9.
 *In a separate case, two suspects in their 20s, including a Grade 12 pupil at
Abambo Senior Secondary School, were arrested on charges of rape and murder
following the death of a 34-year-old woman in Kleinbulhoek two weeks ago.
Nokwezi Langa went missing from her home in Lower Zangqokwe administrative area
at Kleinbulhoek on May 6
 "A search was conducted by the police and on May 8 the body was found near a
river. Police discovered she had been raped and strangled," Mdleleni said.
 Grade 12 pupil Luvuyo Nofemele, 20 and 21-year-old Zoyisile Nazo were arrested
and appeared in the Whittlesea Magistrate's Court. The case was postponed for a
formal bail application.
 *In Thornhill police arrested two suspects on murder charges on May 16 after a
35-year-old unidentified man was found dead in open veld. The man from Lesotho
had gone missing on May 12. A police search led to the discovery of his body two
days later, Mdleleni said.
 "Two suspects were arrested and will appear before Ntabethemba Magistrate's
Court on murder charges. Police are still tracing his family. We appeal to the
community to know the details of people they employ, especially those from
outside the province or country."
 *The Cathcart police were investigating a case of armed robbery after the post
office was robbed of an undisclosed sum of money on Saturday. Mdleleni said two
armed suspects entered the post office as the postmaster opened the doors. He
was held at gunpoint and the men fled with the money. No arrests have been made.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: qr,20,re,qt,we,wd,tw,sw,st,SD,MM,ls,lr,fw,dm,bt

SUBJECT: SEX OFFENSES (92%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (92%); MURDER (91%); ARRESTS (91%);
MAGISTRATES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); POLICE
FORCES (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); BAIL (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); DEATHS
(70%); ROBBERY (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%)

PUB-SUBJECT: Suspects

GEOGRAPHIC: LESOTHO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015


                              129 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 The Decatur Daily
                          The Decatur Daily (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 17, 2015 Sunday

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: 2 dead in string of overnight shootings in Decatur

BYLINE: Jonece Dunigan, The Decatur Daily, Ala.

BODY:

May 17--Decatur police are investigating whether a string of shootings overnight
Friday that left two men dead are related.

Police spokesman Lt. John Crouch said that at about 10 p.m. Friday officers
found the body of a 27-year-old man riddled with what appeared to be bullet
wounds near the carport of a home in the 100 block of Albert Street Southwest.
Morgan County District Attorney Scott Anderson and Coroner Jeff Chunn also
responded to the scene. The victim's identity was being withheld pending
notification of family.

About 9 a.m. Saturday, police received reports of a dead Hispanic male near
Adventure Park, located in Wilson Morgan Park at 300 Beltline Road S.W. Police
said he was shot in the head and that the shootings could be related to other
violent incidents that occurred overnight Friday.

The identity of the second victim also has not been released.

Chunn said both bodies were taken to Huntsville Forensic Sciences for autopsies.
He said he wasn't sure if both deaths are related.

"We don't have anything directly related, but that is a possibility," Chunn
said.

Shots were also fired into a home on the 600 block of Fifth Avenue Southwest
about 9 p.m. Friday. No one was harmed. The residents said the shots came from a
silver Nissan Altima occupied by multiple black males.

Officers also responded to a robbery at 11:30 p.m. in the 1600 block of Eighth
Avenue Southwest.

The victim had her 5-year-old daughter in the back seat of her car when she went
inside the home to turn down her daughter's bed, police said. When she returned
to the car to get her daughter, she was approached by two black males who wore
all black and ski masks.

The victim said they came out of a light-colored Nissan Altima, and one was
armed with a long, black gun.

The victim said the suspects demanded her money or else they were going to kill
her daughter. The victim gave the suspects her purse in response. The suspects
left in the Altima, and no one was harmed.

Shots were fired into a home in the 400 block of Fifth Avenue Southwest about
12:30 a.m. Saturday.

The victim in that incident told officers she was sitting on her couch when she
heard multiple gunshots and glass breaking. She took refuge in a bathroom, where
she called police.

Officers found multiple bullet holes on the side of the house. A witness to the
shooting said she saw a silver Nissan Altima with a black bumper drive away from
the house.

A man claiming to be robbed came to the front desk of the Decatur Police
Department about 1:15 a.m. He said he was riding his bike near 11th Avenue and
Second Street Northwest when two black males dressed in black exited a silver
four-door car.

One was armed with a shotgun, while the other was armed with a handgun. One of
the men demanded his belongings, while a third man remained in the car.

The victim said he turned and ran, police said. He then heard one individual
tell another man to shoot him, but no shots were fired, and no one was harmed.

Response

Anderson said he couldn't release details about the shootings and the slayings
because the cases are still being investigated.

"Law enforcement is putting every man they can on this," Anderson said. "We need
to wait and see what we're dealing with here."

Police are asking for any tips that may lead to the suspects' arrests. Police
are offering a $1,000 reward.

Anyone who might have seen an older model bronze or silver Nissan Altima with a
dark colored bumper or a group of black males dressed all in black last night or
who might have any other information related to any of these cases is asked to
call police at 256-476-7638.

___ (c)2015 The Decatur Daily (Decatur, Ala.) Visit The Decatur Daily (Decatur,
Ala.) at www.decaturdaily.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DD

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%);
LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MEN (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%);
FORENSICS (78%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); COUNTY
GOVERNMENT (77%); ROBBERY (73%); HEAD INJURIES (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%)

INDUSTRY: General

GEOGRAPHIC: DECATUR, AL, USA (91%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (58%) ALABAMA, USA (91%)
UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2015


                              130 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                          Copyright 2015 Newsday, Inc.

                               Newsday (New York)

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: NATION: IN BRIEF

BODY:

ALASKA

Crash probe continues

Crews resumed recovery efforts yesterday at a remote site in southeast Alaska
where a sightseeing plane crashed, killing all nine people aboard. Eight cruise
ship passengers and their pilot died when the DeHavilland DHC-3 Otter turboprop
went down on Thursday in Misty Fjords National Monument near Ketchikan. The
cause of the crash remained under investigation. The identities of those on the
plane were being withheld as authorities worked to notify their families. Crews
planned to land aircraft near the crash site on an 800-foot cliff above Ella
Lake and then hike to the wreckage.

OHIO

Slain cop remembered

Police officers nationwide turned out yesterday for a slain Cincinnati officer's
funeral, where city officials, family and colleagues spoke of his devotion to
duty and love for his family and his city. Hundreds of people packed Xavier
University's Cintas Center to honor Officer Sonny Kim, 48. Police say the
27-year veteran was killed June 19 by an armed suspect who had made 911 calls
and was seeking "suicide by cop." The suspect was killed by police. City Manager
Harry Black called Kim a "true hero" and a model police officer.

NEVADA

Casinos rake in $1B in May

Huge crowds and high rollers in Las Vegas for the Floyd Mayweather-Manny
Pacquiao fight helped Nevada casinos make more than $1 billion off gamblers in
May, according to records released yesterday. It was the first time casinos
exceeded that total in more than a year. "To hit a billion, we're pretty
pleased," said Nevada Gaming Control Board analyst Michael Lawton said. Slot
machines and tables were packed on fight night, May 2, and casinos responded by
raising limits to accommodate big spenders. It was the start of a busy month
that included the new Rock in Rio outdoor music festival, the World Series of
Poker and Memorial Day weekend.

nationwide

Selfie sticking point

Walt Disney World is banning selfie sticks from its theme parks, citing safety
concerns, a company spokeswoman said yesterday morning. Under a new policy,
which takes effect Tuesday, the poles won't make it past the bag check at any
Disney World theme park. The sticks also won't be allowed in Disney World water
parks or DisneyQuest, a gaming attraction at Downtown Disney. Selfie sticks will
also become forbidden at Disneyland Resort in California on Tuesday. The
prohibition kicks in at Disney's parks in Paris and Hong Kong on July 1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (91%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (91%); DEATHS &
INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); CASINOS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS
(90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GAMING (89%); AMUSEMENT
& THEME PARKS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%);
CRUISES (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); CITIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%);
STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); POKER (71%); SELFIES
(67%); FESTIVALS (65%); WATER PARKS (61%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (61%); CINTAS CORP (55%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: XAVIER UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (61%); CTAS (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (61%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS
(61%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (61%); NAICS453220 GIFT,
NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (61%); NAICS812332 INDUSTRIAL LAUNDERERS (55%);
SIC7218 INDUSTRIAL LAUNDERERS (55%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (52%)

PERSON: FLOYD MAYWEATHER JR (54%); MANNY PACQUIAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE
(50%) ALASKA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA
(79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015


                              131 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Cape Argus (South Africa)

                             May 16, 2015 Saturday
                                   E1 Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: The tragic death of|a 'friendly man';
Two-year-old girl fights to survive

BYLINE:  JANIS KINNEAR

BODY:

AS he reached the white door, ajar at his cousin's home in Durbanville's
Fisantekraal, Ivan Ska was met by the horrific sight of the cousin pleading with
his hands but unable to utter a word as blood streamed from his head where he'd
been shot.

And on the injured man's chest, lay his two-year-old baby girl, her tiny waist
bloodied after one of three gunmen had hit her with a single bullet in her
stomach.

Speaking in front of this house of horrors, Skai, 42, said on Saturday evening,
he had been making a fire to cook supper when he heard screams nearby.

Someone alerted him that his cousin, Mongezi Gamtele, 35, had been gunned down
at home.

He rushed to find the tragic scene of Gamtele taking his last breaths while his
daughter, Nosipho Gamtele, 2, clung to life.

"I got such a fright when I got to my cousin's house. He was lying in the
doorway with his hands in the air but he couldn't speak. His face was full of
blood and the child was on his chest also bleeding," recalled Skai.

The police were then alerted and Gamtele was later declared dead at the scene
while the toddler was rushed to Red Cross War Memorial Children's |Hospital.

Hospital spokeswoman Angelique Jordaan said the little girl was recovering after
having undergone surgery to remove the bullet lodged in her abdomen.

"She is currently in a stable condition and doing well," she added.

It is alleged that three armed men had gained access to the victim's home after
posing as police officers dressed in civilian clothing.

With Gamtele not there at the time, the gunmen had demanded his girlfriend call
him to rush home. Upon his arrival, just in front of his shack, the men took his
firearm and shot him in the head.

They then turned a gun on the couple's daughter and shot her in the stomach
before they fled the scene.

Skai thinks that his cousin, whom he fondly referred to as Mongi, had been
targeted for his licensed firearm and said that it was not the first break-in at
Gamtele's house.

"The family is all not okay... Mongi didn't drink, he didn't smoke, he just
worked and even made videos in his free time," said Skai.

Funeral arrangements will be finalised this weekend.

Gamtele's neighbour Sicelo Smith, 26, said he was shocked by the murder of
Gamtele who had been a "friendly man".

He said the area had a "very high" crime rate, adding that "even now I'm scared
for my safety, we want more police".

Police are still hunting for the gunmen.

Police spokesman Colonel Tembinkosi Kinana confirmed that there were no new
developments in the case.

Situated about 5km from Durbanville, the Fisantekraal community is reported to
have grown substantially and crime has escalated in the area which has seen
"increased unemployment and surrounding business closures".

The Durbanville Community Policing Forum (CPF) says it has repeatedly asked for
the satellite police station serving Fisantekraal to be converted into a
fully-fledged station, something the forum says is a "matter of urgency".

The chairwoman of the forum, Lesley Ashton, said cable theft at the satellite
station when telephone lines were stolen, hampered communication with the
central police station which often resulted in slower response times.

Fisantekraal, Ashton added, only had one dedicated police vehicle.

Rising crime trends in the area included robberies, assaults, break-ins and
armed robberies. In some of the incidents the CPF said "plastic imitation
firearms" had been |confiscated.

Ashton said the forum and community were strongly asking the police authorities
and the Department of Community Safety and other roleplayers for another police
station.

"The loss of a father and an injured child due to crime is a very sad way to
draw attention once again to the recognised shortfalls in ensuring the safety
and security of the greater Durbanville community," she added.

janis.kinnear@inl.co.za

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CW

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS
(90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CHILDREN (78%); MURDER (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%);
CRIME RATES (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (67%); IMPERSONATION (66%); POLICE
FORCES (66%); HOSPITALS (65%)

PUB-SUBJECT: WeekendArgus.News

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2015


                              132 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.
                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 19, 2015 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATION; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 491 words

BODY:

COMCAST FOUNDER, PIONEER OF CABLE TELEVISION DIES

NEW YORK - Ralph Roberts, a businessman with a gentle demeanor who built Comcast
from a small cable TV system in Mississippi into one of the nation's largest
entertainment companies, has died. He was 95.

Comcast says in a statement that Mr. Roberts died Thursday night in Philadelphia
of natural causes.

Mr. Roberts jumped into the fledgling cable TV industry in 1963 by spending
$500,000 to buy American Cable Systems, a company in Tupelo, Miss. He then
acquired other cable systems, changed the name of the company to Comcast and ran
the company until he was in his 80s.

He handed control of the company to one of his sons, Brian Roberts, who is now
Comcast's chairman and CEO. The younger Mr. Roberts expanded beyond his father's
vision and led Comcast to own NBCUniversal.

A graduate of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, Roberts also
served in the U.S. Navy.

He was a well-known philanthropist in Philadelphia, supporting such efforts as
Project H.O.M.E., an outreach program for the homeless. HIGH COURT STRIKES DOWN
ARIZ. SIGN ORDINANCE

WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court on Thursday struck down an Arizona town's
ordinance that treated signs directing people to a small church's worship
services differently than signs with other messages, such as a political
candidate's advertisement.

The decision was unanimous in favor of the tiny Good News Community Church,
which has a long-running dispute with the town of Gilbert, Ariz., over signs
planted in public rights of way directing congregants to church meeting places.

But the justices split over the correct way to decide the case.

Five justices joined Justice Clarence Thomas's decision that the town's
regulations are based on the content of the sign's message and thus require the
court's highest First Amendment protection.

The town "singles out specific subject matter for differential treatment, even
if it does not target viewpoints within that subject matter," Mr. Thomas wrote.
"Ideological messages are given more favorable treatment than messages
concerning a political candidate, which are themselves given more favorable
treatment than messages announcing an assembly of like-minded individuals."

Mr. Thomas wrote, "That is a paradigmatic example of content-based
discrimination." OFFICER, SUSPECT DEAD AFTER SHOOTOUT

CINCINNATI - Cincinnati's police chief says a policeman and an armed suspect who
were shot during a gunfight with other officers have died.

Chief Jeffrey Blackwell says the 27-year police veteran died after the shooting
this morning in the Madisonville neighborhood. He said the suspect was also
killed.

Blackwell said multiple shots were fired between the suspect and officers
responding to a 911 call. The chief says he believes the suspect was on the
street when police arrived.

The shooting comes nine days after Cincinnati police released a plan for dealing
with a recent surge of gun violence in the city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY
(90%); DEATHS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ORDINANCES
(87%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY
NAME CHANGES (76%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS
& TRIBUNALS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES
(69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); NAVIES (67%);
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (66%); HOMELESSNESS (52%)

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (95%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); US NAVY (56%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (95%); CCV (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%)

PERSON: BRIAN L ROBERTS (79%); CLARENCE THOMAS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI,
USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015


                              133 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             June 18, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Massacred while they studied the Bible: nine killed by gunman in race
attack at black US church;
POLICE RELEASE IMAGE OF SUSPECT AFTER PASTOR AND WORSHIPPERS ARE SHOT IN SOUTH
CAROLINA

BYLINE: David Gardner

BODY:

A HUGE manhunt was under way today after a white gunman opened fire in an
African-American church and killed nine people, including a pastor, in a
race-hate attack.

The killer burst into the building in Charleston, South Carolina, spraying
bullets at his victims as they took part in a Bible study session. Police
released the first image of the suspect, describing him as armed and dangerous.
The massacre took place in Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church last
night. Eight victims were killed in the building and the ninth died in hospital.
The pastor, state senator Clementa Pinckney, 41, was among the dead. Another
person was injured.

According to local reports, the gunman let one woman escape so she could tell
the story, and a girl of five survived by playing dead.

Detectives said the gunman was white, 21 to 25, slender and about 5ft 9ins tall.
He wore a grey top, blue jeans and boots, and fled in a black sedan. City police
chief Gregory Mullen appealed to the public to help catch him, saying the FBI
had joined the hunt.

"I do believe it was a hate crime," he added. "This is a tragedy no community
should experience, senseless, unfathomable. We are going to do everything in our
power to find this individual, to lock him up, to make sure he does not hurt
anyone else."

He said the scene was chaotic when officers arrived. They thought a police dog
had tracked the trail of the suspect, but he got away. Dot Scott, president of
the Charleston National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said
a survivor told her family the gunman sat down in the church before opening
fire, and told her he was letting her live so she could tell the world what
happened. Family members said a fiveyear-old girl survived after she was told to
play dead by her grandmother.

Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley said: "It was a heartbreaking scene. The only
reason someone could walk into a church and shoot people praying is hate. It is
the most dastardly act that one could possibly imagine." Soon after the attack a
bomb threat was made at the building, but the all-clear was given. Police with
dogs searched the streets as a helicopter hovered overhead.

Set up in 1816, Emanuel is one of the oldest African-American churches. One of
its founders, former slave Denmark Vesey, tried to organise a slave revolt in
1822. Landowners burned his church burnt in revenge. @KiranRandhawa

GRAPHIC: On camera: above, an image of the suspect released by police, and an
officer at the scene with a local man in the aftermath of the attack. Among the
victims was pastor Clementa Pinckney, below left, who was also a state
senatorCommunity in shock: people comfort each other and pray outside Emanuel
African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, while a police officer cordons
off the scene

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (90%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (90%);
CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); WAR &
CONFLICT (90%); HATE CRIME (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); BURN INJURIES (78%);
WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); DOGS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%);
DEATHS (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (70%); SHOOTINGS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (91%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES
(94%) National Edition

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015


                              134 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved
                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                               May 3, 2015 Sunday

LENGTH: 1706  words

HEADLINE: Teaching peace amid death in the deep South

BODY:

 Two innocent students were killed in a raid by security forces, but Fatoni
University in Pattani is intent on ending the cycle of violence

'We were building good citizens for a stronger nation, you came and tore them
down, said the rector of Fatoni University. We have been left devastated.

That was the powerful statement made by assistant professor Ismaillutfi Japakiya
on April 7, responding to a committee of military men, police officers and
community leaders.

The committee was trying to explain why four innocent young men - including two
final year students at Fatoni University - were shot dead in a bungled security
raid in Pattani's Thung Yang Daeng district on March 25.

In an attempt to quell outrage among locals, Fourth Army Region commander Lt Gen
Prakarn Cholayuth ordered Pattani governor Weerapong Kaewsuwan to appoint a
committee to investigate the incident.

The victims of the fatal village raid, in which 22 were also detained for
questioning, had been accused of involvement with the RKK insurgent group.

But the committee found the four dead men had nothing to do with the group, were
not militants and were not carrying any weapons at the time of the raid.

Mr Ismaillutfi broke into tears as he accepted an apology from Lt Gen Prakarn.
Even though this does not end today, I am at least glad to know that our
children are innocent, he said.

A CHANCE TO LEARN

Fatoni University and its rector had always had a fairly low profile within
Thailand, although it is well-known in the Islamic world. But since the Thung
Yang Daeng tragedy and unprecedented military apology, the university has been
thrust into the spotlight.

Fatoni University was known as Yala Islamic University when it was established
in 1996. It was originally located on a 43-rai plot in Muang district, Yala
province. Construction was funded by the Islamic Development Bank.

Mr Ismaillutfi founded the university to serve all Muslims in the deep South,
with the intention of bringing peace to the area.

The only way to solve the problems here is to introduce education to the area,
he told Spectrum.

Before Fatoni was set up, Thai Muslims who wanted to join an Islamic university
had to travel to another country, such as Saudi Arabia or Egypt. Mr Ismaillutfi
was one such student, and spent 13 years in Saudi Arabia from 1973 to 1986,
studying all the way from bachelor's degree level to gaining a doctorate in
philosophy.

But he remembers feeling isolated as a student abroad, and said the Thai embassy
at the time did little to take care of Thai Muslims in Saudi Arabia.

They treated me like I was not a Thai citizen, Mr Ismaillutfi said, recalling
how he felt neglected by officials.

The experience made him consider the plight of other Thai students in similar
situations, and got him thinking about how to improve access to a quality
Islamic education closer to home.

Five years after returning to Thailand, Mr Ismaillutfi was invited to a Ministry
of Foreign Affairs conference to talk about the issues he faced during his time
in Saudi Arabia.

He told the audience that problems in the deep South might be linked to the fact
that government officials always treat Thai Muslims like outsiders.

He warned that Thai Muslim students often develop stronger bonds with their host
nations than with Thailand, adding that many graduate and come home to work as
teachers, but request funding from the country where they studied as opposed to
Thai sources.

PROVING THEM WRONG

Mr Ismaillutfi realised that opening an Islamic university in Thailand could be
the answer to many of the problems he wanted to help solve. He started
developing a plan to push forward the project, but it wasn't as easy as he had
hoped.

When he first came back from Saudi Arabia, he was monitored by Thai officials.

The continuous pressure started to take its toll, and he almost left the country
when officials accused him of being involved with an insurgency group in the
deep South.

But his father convinced him to stay where he belonged in Thailand, and to prove
security officials wrong by continuing to be an upstanding member of society.

Things gradually improved. Ten years after coming home, he was finally in a
position to put his plan into action.

Mr Ismaillutfi established his university in Yala, integrating Islamic teaching
with vocational education so that all students could learn skills to make a
living.

The university opened in 1996 but wasn't officially approved until 1998, under
the name Yala Islamic College.

The first 200 students were enrolled to learn Islamic Law and Usuluddin, which
is a programme of Islamic Studies.

In 2004, the university moved its main campus to a 200-rai plot in Pattani,
funded by donors from Saudi Arabia.

The majority of the university's operations are now run from Pattani, while the
Yala campus hosts an international programme for foreign students. The
university has more than 4,000 Thai and international students.

CLASH OF FAITHS

The vast majority of Muslims in Thailand are Sunni, but despite subscribing to
the same branch of the religion, people are still divided by differing beliefs.

According to a source who asked to remain anonymous, Fatoni University is
considered to teach the new path of Islam. The new path is stricter in terms of
religious practice and Islamic law, but more liberal and peaceful, the source
said.

The new path aims to support Muslims to follow the teachings of the Koran, while
adopting lessons from the academic world to apply to modern life.

The old path, on the other hand, is more nationalistic. Its approach to the
Koran is the same, but those who follow the old path do not see themselves as
Thai, but as citizens of Pattani state.

We don't hate each other, but we believe in different things, said another local
source. We always know who follows which path, but it is just a matter of
different beliefs.

Those who adhere to the new path believe that knowledge can solve problems and
try to access education from mainstream schools and university. But believers in
the old path only send their children to Islamic schools, known locally as
Pornoh.

REJECTING BLOODSHED

While some use violence to try and get their own way, Mr Ismaillutfi favours a
different approach. He sees education as a sustainable means to ending turmoil
in the South.

Since I started the university, my slogan has been that we must foster positive
lives before careers, Mr Ismaillutfi said. People must understand their life
purpose before knowing what they want to do for a living.

To the rector, that means supporting students to develop high moral values, and
helping them consider how their actions affect society as a whole.

Mr Ismaillutfi has tailored the curriculum at the university to achieving this
goal, and his course in Peace Studies is compulsory for all students in order to
graduate.

He use lessons in the Koran as a key part of teaching the subject, since Islam
advocates peaceful approaches to solving problems, and the world Islam itself
means peace.

In addition to his academic work, Mr Ismaillutfi is also co-chairman of the
Religions for Peace Inter-Religious Council of Thailand.

He used his experience on the council to help design the Peace Studies
curriculum around the concept of peace in all five religions officially
recognised in Thailand: Buddhism, Islam, Christianity, Hinduism and Sikhism.

The rector argues that using peace to fight injustice strengthens the case of
the oppressed. He said his Peace Studies course doesn't aim to stop people
fighting for what they believe in, but teaches them how to fight in a peaceful
manner.

More than 100 years ago the government came into our area and violently abused
us, Mr Ismaillutfi said.

It didn't solve anything. In fact, it made the situation worse and locals have
been trying to fight back using the same violent approach since then.

AT THE CENTRE OF ASEAN

Ongoing violence in the deep South means the university is located in a safety
red zone. However, foreign students still choose to come and study there.

The number of overseas students has been rising steadily every year. Fatoni now
has 200 foreign students enrolled, from 12 countries including Cambodia, China,
Myanmar and Laos.

Assistant professor Sukree Langputeh, the deputy rector for academic affairs and
research at the university, told Spectrum that schools in China are impressed
with the education their students receive in Thailand.

The schools had previously sent their students to study in the Middle East, but
when those young people returned to China they seemed a bit rough.

However, students returning from Thailand exhibit a different attitude. The
Chinese schools say they seem friendly, gentle and peaceful - like Muslim people
from the south of Thailand.

Another factor that makes Fatoni University popular is that foreign students can
learn a range of languages.

If they study in Saudi Arabia, they can only learn Arabic, but here they can
learn Thai, Malay, English and Arabic, Mr Sukree said.

The forthcoming Asean Economic Community means that many Muslim students from
across Asia, especially the Chinese, see Pattani as a hub for business
opportunities with other Asean countries, he added.

We have taught Chinese entrepreneurs who own businesses in Malaysia, Mr Sukree
explained.

They said coming to study here was great since they could learn the Malay
language and be close to Malaysia, which benefits their businesses in the long
term.

After Mr Ismaillutfi addressed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs conference 14
years ago, things started to get better for Thai Muslims who went to study
abroad. Officials made more effort to interact with them and helped build
networks between isolated students.

However the rector is convinced that studying at home provides the best option
for Thai Muslims. He says students benefit from understanding the national
culture and politics, and from developing a sense of civic duty and morality
within that context.

Mr Ismaillutfi now wants all schools in Thailand to start teaching a form of
Peace Studies, arguing that peace is the only way to solve violence and
political conflicts in all corners of the country.

My students wouldn't have lost their lives and others will not die in the future
if everyone chooses to solve their problems with peace, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); RELIGION (89%); ARMIES (78%); TEACHING &
TEACHERS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS
(78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); INTERROGATION OF
SUSPECTS (76%); SHOOTINGS (73%); CHILDREN (70%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (69%);
ISLAMIC BANKING (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (93%); THAILAND (93%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015


                              135 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                               May 8, 2015 Friday

LENGTH: 201  words

HEADLINE: New York State Police Investigate Shooting Involving City of Beacon
Police Department

BODY:

At the direction of Dutchess County District Attorney William Grady, the New
York State Police, in conjunction with the City of Beacon Police Department,
commenced an investigation into the shooting death of an armed suspect by a City
of Beacon police officer.


At approximately 3:30pm today, a white male suspect, while at Memorial Park in
City of Beacon, car-jacked a vehicle at knife point. City of Beacon P.D.
responded.  Suspect subsequently abandoned the stolen vehicle on North Elm
Street and a foot pursuit ensued through a wooded area near I-84.  Suspect ran
in a northerly direction across the eastbound and westbound lanes of I-84 near
Exit 11.  Just off the westbound shoulder, the suspect threatened pursuing
officers with a large knife and was subsequently shot and killed by police.
Eastbound and westbound lanes of I-84 were shut down for a period of time to
process the scene of the shooting, causing delays for motorists.
Release of suspect's identity is pending notification of next of kin.
Additional information will be released as it becomes available.
Any witnesses are asked to contact the New York State Police Troop K
Headquarters, Poughkeepsie at 845-677-7300. 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
(91%); SHOOTINGS (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%);
CARJACKING (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2015


                              136 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.

                             Daily News (New York)

                              June 19, 2015 Friday
                                 METRO EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: 'I have to do it. You rape our women & are taking over our country.
You have to go.'

BYLINE: BY EDGAR SANDOVAL in Charleston, S.C. RACHELLE BLIDNER and LARRY McSHANE
With Cameron Joseph

BODY:

ONE WEEK before his arrest for a racist rampage at a revered Southern church,
Dylann Storm Roof shared an apocalyptic vision of mass murder with a trailer
park neighbor.

"He was looking to kill a bunch of people," recalled Christon Scriven, 22, just
hours before his bigoted buddy's arrest for a racially motivated killing spree.
"He flat out told us he was going to do this stuff. He's just off in the head .
. . Weird."

The hate-fueled white gunman was busted Thursday morning after a 14-hour
manhunt, suspected in the execution of nine helpless black worshippers inside
the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C.

The innocent, unarmed victims ranged in age from 26 to 87 - and included the
venerable church's pastor, an acquaintance of President Obama and First Lady
Michelle.

Chilling details emerged about Roof's racist rants inside the church, the
ignored pleas of his victims as he reloaded his handgun five times - and his
release of one terrified woman to serve as a witness to the carnage.

"The shooter said, 'I'm not going to shoot you because I want you to tell
everyone what happened,' " Charleston NAACP chapter President Dot Scott told a
local newspaper, the Post and Courier.

Roof arrived at 8 p.m. for the Wednesday prayer meeting, bringing a heart filled
with evil and a fully loaded handgun, officials said. He spent an hour with his
victims before declaring his murderous intent with a merciless four-word
announcement: "You have to go."

Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of the slain pastor, the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, told
MSNBC that a survivor recounted how Roof delivered one final crazed comment
before the shooting started.

"I have to do it," he was quoted as saying. "You rape our women and you're
taking over our country."

Eight of the victims were found dead inside the house of worship with two
centuries of history, while the ninth died in the operating room of a nearby
hospital.

Three people survived the bloodshed, although authorities released no details
about the fortunate trio.

Roof, 21, a high school dropout and accused drug user, was nabbed after driving
245 miles from the church parking lot to the town of Shelby, N.C. - where a
woman recognized his black Hyundai and Three Stooges-style bowl haircut.

"A terrible human being who would go into a place of worship where people are
praying and kill them is now in custody - where he will always remain," said
Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley.

The mass slaying of the pastor and his flock during an evening Bible study
session was immediately labeled a hate crime, even as it echoed sad chapters
from America's violent past.

President Obama invoked the killing of four black girls in a 1963 Birmingham,
Ala., church bombing by the Ku Klux Klan. And the shooting spree harkened to
mass killings at the Sandy Hook Elementary School, a Colorado movie theater and
the carnage at Virginia Tech.

"The fact that this took place in a black church obviously . . . raises
questions about a dark part of our history," the President declared.

But Obama also took aim at a Congress that has repeatedly rebuffed White House
efforts on gun control.

"At some point, we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type
of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries," he said.

"And it is in our power to do something about it. I say that, recognizing the
politics in this town foreclose a lot of those avenues right now."

Obama noted that he and his wife personally knew some parishioners at the church
- including its slain pastor, who was also a South Carolina politician.

In other developments:

* The FBI learned of Roof's identity when childhood friend Joey Meek, 20,
recognized his skinny friend's face and grimy gray sweatshirt in a surveillance
camera frame grab from the church.

"I didn't THINK it was him," Meek said. "I KNEW it was him."

* Roof waived both his right to extradition and his right to counsel at a
10-minute North Carolina hearing, clearing the way for his Thursday night return
to South Carolina.

* Cops released Roof's 2015 rap sheet: A Feb. 28 bust for possession of a
controlled substance in the local mall and an April 26 arrest for trespassing at
the same mall.

* An ominous Facebook photo showed the demented mass murder suspect glaring into
the camera while wearing a black jacket decorated with an apartheid-era South
African flag.

* Roof's father, Ben, refused to comment, calling the cops on a reporter at his
South Carolina home. The suspect's uncle said the dad's 21st birthday present to
Roof in April was a .45-caliber handgun.

* The South Carolina state Legislature came under fire when the Confederate
flag, a symbol of the Civil War and slavery, flew at full staff above the
Statehouse after the racist murders.

* The multiple murder suspect's sister, 27-year-old Amber, is scheduled to get
married Sunday.

* None of the GOP presidential hopefuls - Sens. Marco Rubio, Rand Paul and Ted
Cruz - linked gun control to the mass killing at the annual Faith & Freedom
Coalition's convention.

But Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton said the time for legislation was
now. "We have to be honest," she said Thursday. "How many people do we need to
see cut down before we act?"

Charleston County Coroner Rae Wooten read off the sad litany of victims' names,
noting all were shot to death without giving any specifics.

The best known was the well-respected Rev. Pinckney, 41, who served as both
pastor and state senator. Pinckney, the father of two girls and a preaching
prodigy since age 13, was elected to the Statehouse at 23 - making him the
youngest member of the House at the time.

Three other church officials were also killed: Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, 45,
Daniel Simmons, 74, and Mira Thompson, 59. Other victims included longtime
parishioner Susie Jackson, 87, and one-time church janitor Ethel Lance, 70.

The others killed were identified as public library branch manager Cynthia Hurd,
54; college enrollment counselor DePayne Doctor, 49; and recent college graduate
Tywanza Sanders, 26.

Roof's appearance at the church meeting did not alarm any of the worshippers,
who are used to drop-ins from tourists visiting the historical building.

Authorities said the arrest of the suspect came without incident at 10:49 a.m.
after a local citizen called police to report she had spied Roof in his getaway
car.

Roof, roughly 25 minutes after he was stopped by cops, surrendered quietly.
Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen characterized the killer as "cooperative" as
he was taken into custody by local officers. Police said the suspect was still
armed when approached by cops. Authorities believe Roof acted alone in planning
and executing the lethal attack.

A woman on her way to work at a Shelby florist recognized Roof's black Hyundai
on Highway 74 and called her boss - who in turn dialed the cops.

"I knew it was a black car . . . I saw pictures of him with the bowl cut," a
teary Debbie Dills told the Shelby Star newspaper.

Roof was fitted by cops with a bulletproof vest and shackles on his hands and
feet before he was taken from the local police station to court.

Roof's trailer park pal Scriven, who is black, said the suspected shooter
initially plotted to target the College of Charleston and not the church.

"You don't know when to take him seriously and when not to," said Scriven. "To
be honest, I didn't react (to the news). I was like, 'Awww man, he did that
s---.' "

South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham said his niece Emily was once in the same
eighth-grade class as Roof - described by the GOP presidential hopeful as "one
of these whacked out kids."

Graham, after speaking with his sister Darline Nordone and his niece, told CNN
that his relatives had nothing positive to say about Roof.

"He was quiet, strange, very anti-social and everyone thought he was on drugs,"
said Graham. ". . . It's about a young man who is obviously twisted."

Roof could face the death penalty under South Carolina law or federal hate crime
statutes if the case goes that route.

rblidner@nydailynews.com

GRAPHIC: MAP, A man weeps outside Emanuel AME Church Wednesday night after
massacre, allegedly by Dylann Roof (l., in custody Thursday in North Carolina).
AP Joey Meek (r.) said he knew Roof was the suspect when he saw his picture on
TV (top). Roof was captured in Shelby, N.C., about 245 miles from Charleston
(map) after a woman recognized his black Hyundai (above). AP

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: FRONT PAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY
(90%); ARRESTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); HATE CRIME
(89%); TRAILER PARKS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); RELIGION (78%); PROTESTANTS
& PROTESTANTISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MAYORS (72%); PARKING SPACES &
FACILITIES (72%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); FIREARMS
(64%)

PUB-SUBJECT: DYLANN STORM ROOF; SHOOTING; SUSPECT; CHARLESTON; SC; RACISM; AME
CHURCH; MASS MURDER

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (50%) SOUTH CAROLINA,
USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015


                              137 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                              Copyright 2015 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved
                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: Vol. LXIX No. 156

LENGTH: 599  words

HEADLINE: Amir Khan remanded in police custody for one week

BYLINE: ISHAQ TANOLI

BODY:

 An antiterrorism court on Friday remanded Muttahida Qaumi Movement leader Amir
Khan in police custody for a week in a case pertaining to instigating terrorism
and harbouring criminals.

The MQM leader was picked up along with dozens of other suspects by the Rangers
in a pre-dawn raid on and around the party headquarters Nine Zero in Azizabad
some three months ago.

While placing them under 90-day preventive detention, the paramilitary force had
informed a court that they had credible information about their alleged
involvement in offences related to targeted killing and terrorism.

On June 4, the Rangers handed over the MQM leader to the police after
registering a case against him and others for allegedly harbouring criminals and
using them for terrorist activities.

Amid tight security arrangements, the police on Friday produced Amir Khan before
the ATC and the investigating officer sought his custody for two weeks for
questioning.

However, the judge of the ATC-II handed over the MQM leader to police on
physical remand for one week and asked the investigating officer to produce him
at the next hearing along with a progress report.

Khalid Maqbool Siddiqui and other party leaders were also present in the court
during the hearing, while dozens of female activists of the MQM staged a protest
demonstration outside the court.

According to the FIR, the Rangers during the March 11 raid had arrested 26 armed
suspects including Faisal Mehmood alias Mota, who was sentenced to death by a
court in absentia for the murder of journalist Wali Khan Babar; Obaid alias K2,
who was wanted in many cases; and Noman alias Nomi, an absconder in the Advocate
Niamat Ali Randhawa murder case.

Besides, 59 others suspects, including Amir Khan, had also been arrested during
the raid and placed under preventive detention, the FIR added.

It alleged that the MQM leader and others admitted during questioning that Amir
Khan was in charge of the party headquarters security and he along with Minhaj
Qazi, Raees Mama, Shahzad Mullah, Imran Ijaz Niazi and Naeem alias Mullah had
allegedly provided shelter to arrested criminals and had been using them for
terrorist activities.

A joint investigation team (JIT) recommended the registration of a case against
the MQM leader and others, it concluded.

The case was registered against Amir Khan and others under Sections 11V
(directing terrorist activities), 21J (harbouring any person who committed an
offence under this act) and 7 (punishment for act of terrorism) of the
Anti-Terrorism Act, 1997 on a complaint of Deputy Superintendent Rangers Ashraf
Hussain at the Azizabad police station.

The offences in question carry life imprisonment and confiscation of assets.

After the hearing, MQM leader Khalid Maqbool Siddiqui said they were being
politically victimised. He said his party had faced similar accusations in the
past also. He added that the party was being pushed to the wall and Amir Khan
was falsely implicated in the case as the suspects had not been declared
criminals yet by courts.

38 suspects released

Meanwhile, the paramilitary force submitted release orders of 38 suspects,
including former MQM lawmaker Yusuf Munir Sheikh, to the ATC after they had been
found guiltless during interrogation, it emerged on Friday.

In the release order, the Rangers said that in the light of the recommendations
of JIT reports, the Sachal section commander of the Rangers ordered their
release for they were no more required for questioning.

The 38 suspects, who had been taken into custody during the March 11 raid, were
released during the current and past weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TERRORIST
ATTACKS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); SENTENCING (78%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT
(78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); JAIL
SENTENCING (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); POLITICS (66%); RELIGION (61%); MURDER
(58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) KARACHI PAKISTAN (79%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                              138 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2015 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Scottish Daily Mail

                              May 9, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Sabotage fears after woman is nearly killed in 4,000f t skydive

BYLINE: Sam Marsden ; Ben Wilkinson

BODY:

A SKYDIVER narrowly cheated death after her parachute failed through suspected
sabotage.

The 39-year-old woman triggered her main parachute at 4,000 ft but it did not
open up.

She survived only because her reserve chute deployed just in time to stop her
smashing into the ground below.

Police have now arrested a man following the terrifying incident at a military
airfield in Wiltshire. Officers said it was a miracle she did not die.

Concerned fellow skydivers had alerted detectives to their suspicions that the
woman's parachute had been tampered with. And police found evidence that
'slinks' - connectors that join the parachute's canopy to its harness - had been
deliberately removed.

The incident unfolded when the experienced skydiver was carrying out a routine
jump at Netheravon Airfield on Salisbury Plain on April 5. The woman, from
Amesbury in Wiltshire, was taken to Southampton hospital with 'multiple serious
injuries', including broken ribs and legs. She is recovering at home.

Wiltshire Police have questioned many members of the parachute club but want any
other witnesses to the incident to come forward.

'This woman would have been dead if her chute hadn't partially opened,' said
Detective Inspector Paul Franklin.

'This meant her descent was slowed enough for her to survive the fall. However,
we were alerted to concerns over what had happened by the parachute club and as
a result instigated an investigation. In particular, we are looking for slinks
that were missing from the parachute which may have been removed and discarded.

'This woman survived this fall miraculously but, despite her experience, she
very nearly lost her life.' Detectives took a 35-year-old man into custody for
questioning on suspicion of attempted murder. He was later released on bail.
Netheravon, which was used by the military during both world wars, is one of the
oldest airfields anywhere, having been established in 1912.

It is now home to the Army Parachute Association, a club set up by a former SAS
commander that organises skydives for military personnel, veterans and
civilians.

A spokesman for South Western Ambulance Service said: 'It was a bad landing. She
was a female in her 30s.

'It was queried on scene that it was a spinal injury.

'We sent one paramedic in a rapid response vehicle, one crew and land ambulance
and South Central's air ambulance. She was taken to hospital in the air
ambulance.' It is not the first time that police have investigated whether a
parachute failure was caused deliberately.

Detectives initially treated the skydiving death of Army cadet Stephen Hilder,
20, as murder. Two of Mr Hilder's friends were arrested over the tragedy at
Hibaldstow airfield in Lincolnshire in 2003.

But they were later cleared when officers came to suspect it was a suicide after
finding fibres from the parachute straps on scissors in the boot of his car.

'Nearly lost her life'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SKYDIVING (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (90%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (89%); MURDER (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); ARMIES (89%); ARRESTS
(89%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTERROGATION
OF SUSPECTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); WITNESSES
(77%); BONE FRACTURES (73%); PARAMEDICS (72%); BAIL (71%); MUSCULOSKELETAL
DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); SUICIDE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: Scotland

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2015


                              139 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 9, 2015 Saturday

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: SKYDIVER ALMOST KILLED

BODY:

4,000FT PLUNGE MAY HAVE BEEN SABOTAGED

BY SAM MARSDEN AND BEN WILKINSON

a SKYDIVER narrowly cheated death after her parachute failed through suspected
sabotage.

The 39-year-old woman triggered her main parachute at 4,000 ft but it did not
open up.

She survived only because her reserve chute deployed just in time to stop her
smashing into the ground below.

Police have now arrested a man following the terrifying incident at a military
airfield in Wiltshire. Officers said it was a miracle she did not die.

Concerned fellow skydivers had alerted detectives to their suspicions that the
woman's parachute had been tampered with. And police found evidence that slinks'
- connectors that join the parachute's canopy to its harness - had been
deliberately removed.

The incident unfolded when the experienced skydiver was carrying out a routine
jump at Netheravon Airfield on Salisbury Plain on April 5.

The woman, from Amesbury in Wiltshire, was taken to Southampton hospital with
multiple serious injuries', including broken ribs and legs. She is recovering at
home.

Wiltshire Police have questioned many members of the parachute club but want any
other witnesses to the incident to come forward.

This woman would have been dead if her chute hadn't partially opened,' said
Detective Inspector Paul Franklin.

This meant her descent was slowed enough for her to survive the fall.

However, we were alerted to concerns over what had happened by the parachute
club and as a result instigated an investigation. In particular, we are looking
for slinks that were missing from the parachute which may have been removed and
discarded.

This woman survived this fall miraculously but, despite her experience, she very
nearly lost her life.' Detectives took a 35-year-old man into custody for
questioning on suspicion of attempted murder. He was later released on bail.
Netheravon, which was used by the military during both world wars, is one of the
oldest airfields anywhere, having been established in 1912.

It is now home to the Army Parachute Association, a club set up by a former SAS
commander that organises skydives for military personnel, veterans and
civilians.

A spokesman for South Western Ambulance Service said: It was a bad landing. She
was a female in her 30s.

It was queried on scene that it was a spinal injury.

We sent one paramedic in a rapid response vehicle, one crew and land ambulance
and South Central's air ambulance. She was taken to hospital in the air
ambulance.'

It is not the first time that police have investigated whether a parachute
failure was caused deliberately.

Detectives initially treated the skydiving death of Army cadet Stephen Hilder,
20, as murder. Two of Mr Hilder's friends were arrested over the tragedy at
Hibaldstow airfield in Lincolnshire in 2003.

But they were later cleared when officers came to suspect it was a suicide after
finding fibres from the parachute straps on scissors in the boot of his car.

© Daily Mail

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers

SUBJECT: SKYDIVING (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (90%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (89%); MURDER
(89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); ARMIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARRESTS
(89%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTERROGATION
OF SUSPECTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); WITNESSES
(76%); BONE FRACTURES (72%); PARAMEDICS (72%); BAIL (71%); MUSCULOSKELETAL
DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); SUICIDE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015


                              140 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                      Copyright 2015 Charleston Newspapers
                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                             June 15, 2015, Monday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P7A

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Readers' Voice

BODY:

I am so sick and tired of hearing about Montessori children. Please, give me a
break.

Most police officers I believe are good police officers and maybe 1 percent or
less are bad police officers. I think with the way the media treats police
officers that if I were one, I would want to quit.

I also get phone calls from my name and number. It's from a credit card company
wanting to lower my interest. I just hang up.

The Republican Party should just change their name to the Koch Brothers Party.

Why can't we get the police to come and arrest drug dealers?

The owners of the restaurants in Charleston should buy generators.

If cursive is taught in the third grade, why do we still have a class of 13 and
14 year olds that can neither read nor write cursive?

I applaud the County Commissioners for going after the PSC and the rate hikes on
these utilities. I just wish it had happened several years ago when the water
and electric companies kept getting raise after raise every year.

Does a foster child who is adopted have a social worker or someone to watch over
the parents and the wellness of the child? This is very important information
that I need.

It's my understanding that cursive writing is not taught in school now in any
grade.

It is extremely poor planning to block the Southside Bridge ramp two days in a
row. The cops there do not know how to direct traffic.

As far as food trucks parking in front of restaurants goes, that needs to be
stopped. The restaurants have a real investment in the city of Charleston and
pay property taxes, business taxes and so forth. The food trucks may pay
business taxes, but that's about it. All they're doing is using the established
business as their draw and then stealing their business. That needs to be
stopped.

If the United States was made up of organs like the human body West Virginia
would be the large intestine. Full of wastes and getting out is the only option
for relief.

Can the Gazette inform the public as to the status of the penalty given those
rioters and looters in Baltimore? If any?

When they determine who aided in the escape of the two convicted murderers from
the New York prison, give them the same sentence as the two escapees. If there
is any loss of life from this escape, then the death penalty should be
considered.

Charleston City Ordinance Section 114-706 clearly states: "No person shall ride
any bicycle upon any sidewalk within the city except where, by ordinance, the
council of the city has designated such sidewalk as an official bicycle route
and has marked such sidewalk with appropriate signs to that effect." Why will
the Charleston Police not enforce this ordinance?

Which genius legislators thought it'd be a good idea to rob me of my right to
know who's carrying a concealed weapon in my vicinity? As usual, this is a law
the consequences of which fall most heavily on women. If a deranged stalker has
already violated a restraining order, it would seem important for the victim to
know he's now armed, wouldn't you think?

The person complaining about Mountain Justice camping at Kanawha State Forest
will be glad to know that they paid full price for the shelters for the entire
week, providing much needed revenue to support the Forest.

If the Legislature requires all Welfare recipients to take drug tests in order
to receive benefits then I think the Legislature should be required to pass IQ
tests in order to write such legislation. Fair is fair!

Sure would appreciate some repair to the St. Albans stop lights. Sitting waaaaay
too long for light changes!!!

West Virginia's DOH, if the department is out of finances, they should look at
themselves as a business. Things to look for: too many roads (need to
decommission some), too many unneeded supervisor's (higher paychecks). This
would give some wasted money to cut grass, fix potholes and maybe pave some
roads.

If anyone in Winfield other than the elected officials has requested a new city
hall, as the mayor claims is one reason to annex 200 acres that conveniently has
30 plus businesses (more b&o taxes), please publish your names in the paper so
all can see. Hurricane and now Winfield have to have the most greedy scum of all
WV towns. Oops, forgot about Dollar Danny of Charleston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); ORDINANCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); RESTAURANTS
(88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); MONTESSORI SCHOOLS
(78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (74%); MOBILE FOOD
SERVICES (74%); FOSTER CARE (73%); RIOTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%);
CREDIT CARDS (71%); MURDER (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME
(69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); COUNTIES (68%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (64%);
PROPERTY TAX (63%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (56%); POLITICAL PARTIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (94%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES
(94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2015


                              141 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved
                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                                 June 23, 2015

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Lagos, Police Tackle Insecurity, Step Up Okada Ban Enforcement

BYLINE: Olasukanmi Akoni and Monsuru Olowoopejo

BODY:

In recent times, there has been a rising wave of crime rates, especially in
Lagos, which has continued to put residents and visitors to the megacity in
palpable fear of being victims of attacks from hoodlums and armed bandits.

Burdened with the enormous challenge of curtailing the rising crime rate in the
state, the state Police Command, has advised Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to
provide combat-ready helicopters for its men and officers to mount surveillance
across the state.

The rising crime rate in the state, hit the head, last Friday, following the
murder of one Sodiq in the Mushin area of the state. Sodiq, it was said, was
murdered in cold blood by unknown gunmen, around 2pm, shortly after Jumaat
service. The killings in the area which was becoming a recurring decimal irked
residents, who protested at the Lagos State House of Assembly, to register their
displeasure.

Speaking on behalf of the aggrieved residents, Mr. Abiodun Leshi, explained that
the affected streets that have lost sleep in recent times were Taniolodo, Lawani
and Ojelawe.

In a related development, there is a fresh battle by Lagos State Government to
tackle the resurgence of motorcycle operators popularly called Okada riders in
all the 475 restricted roads including bridges and highways in the state. Recall
that the last administration of Babatunde Fashola, in 2012, signed the Lagos
Road Traffic Bill into law, restricting operations of okada riders from specific
roads in the state.

At onset, there was high compliance by the riders, but towards the 2015 general
elections, there was an explosion in the resurgence of riders across the state,
even on restricted routes. Angered that the riders apparently took advantage of
election period to flout the law, the state government last weekend, issued a
48-hour ultimatum to the recalcitrant okada riders, not to ply the 475
restricted roads, including bridges and highways. It warned that failure to
adhere to the law, both the rider and the passengers, will be prosecuted by a
Special Taskforce it has set-up.

Meanwhile, on the increasing crime rate in the state, police officers,
particularly Divisional Police Officers and Area Commanders, who spoke during an
interactive session with Ambode, last week, at the Oduduwa Police Command in
Ikeja, lamented that the perennial traffic gridlocks in the metropolis was
affecting prompt arrival of the Police at crime scenes, adding that the
situation calls for the need of aerial patrol across the state to stem the tide.

Other complaints tabled before the governor was that the helicopters procured by
the last administration were not fully equipped to combat-ready standard, that
the daily increase in the state population required the police to adopt more
surveillance strategies, that the number of patrol vehicles were not enough to
enforce the 2012 road traffic law.

Responding, Ambode said "When we had our security council meeting, this was one
of the issues raised at the meeting. We know that the helicopters we have at the
moment are not combat ready. So we are looking for helicopters that can perform
multi-task that is an helicopter that can patrol the state during the day and at
night.

"We want to make sure that we keep the state safe always. Whatever strategy it
would require for us to have a safe society, this administration will do it to
ensure that lives and property are well protected. The final solution is that we
must have an integrated security plan in the state that would ensure that we are
safe in the air, on land and water. All these will be integrated together using
the Nigerian Police."

The governor noted that vehicles would be provided to patrol the state and
adequate fuel would be supplied to ensure movement of the vehicles, adding that
his administration would reactivate the fuel collection point and ensure that
adequate fuel is provided weekly.

However, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Mr. Oluseyi Coker, who
stressed that the Traffic Law (Schedule 11) which restricts the operations of
motorcycle as well as Regulation 16 Sub-sections 4, 5 and 6 of the Law are
sacrosanct said: "Section 3 Sub-section 1 of the Law stipulates that "No person
shall ride, drive or propel a cart, wheel barrow, motorcycle or tricycle on any
of the routes specified in Schedule 11 to this Law.

"However, it is disheartening to see that motorcycle operators have resurfaced
on our restricted roads especially in areas such as Ikeja, Isolo, Apapa, Agege,
Epe, Ijede, Shomolu/ Bariga, Ifako Ijaiye/ Ojokoro, Ikorodu, Mushin, Ketu,
Ojota, Lagos Island, Ojodu and Badagry, in spite of the various efforts of the
past administrations in the State to ensure that the menace of motorcycle
operators is curbed and the rate of accident, injuries and death is reduced
drastically in the state."

"The present administration of Ambode would not fold its arms and allow
lawlessness, indiscipline, flagrant disobedience to law and order, loss of lives
and property of innocent citizens of the state to continue unabated," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (93%); MURDER (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); REGIONAL &
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (87%);
ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HELICOPTERS (76%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES
(76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); DRIVING & TRAFFIC LAWS (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS
(71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); MOTORCYCLES (66%)

PUB-SUBJECT: Nigeria; Legal and Judicial Affairs

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (94%) NIGERIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2015


                              142 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.

                             Daily News (New York)

                              June 19, 2015 Friday
                              SPORTS EXTRA EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: 'I have to do it. You rape our women & are taking over our country.
You have to go.'

BYLINE: BY EDGAR SANDOVAL in Charleston, S.C., RACHELLE BLIDNER and LARRY
McSHANE With Cameron Joseph

BODY:

ONE WEEK before his arrest for a racist rampage at a revered Southern church,
Dylann Storm Roof shared an apocalyptic vision of mass murder with a trailer
park neighbor.

"He was looking to kill a bunch of people," recalled Christon Scriven, 22, just
hours before his bigoted buddy's arrest for a racially motivated killing spree.
"He flat out told us he was going to do this stuff. He's just off in the head .
. . Weird."

The hate-fueled white gunman was busted Thursday morning after a 14-hour
manhunt, suspected in the execution of nine helpless black worshippers inside
the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C.

The innocent, unarmed victims ranged in age from 26 to 87 - and included the
venerable church's pastor, an acquaintance of President Obama and First Lady
Michelle.

Chilling details emerged about Roof's racist rants inside the church, the
ignored pleas of his victims as he reloaded his handgun five times - and his
release of one terrified woman to serve as a witness to the carnage.

"The shooter said, 'I'm not going to shoot you because I want you to tell
everyone what happened,' " Charleston NAACP chapter President Dot Scott told a
local newspaper, the Post and Courier.

Roof arrived at 8 p.m. for the Wednesday prayer meeting, bringing a heart filled
with evil and a fully loaded handgun, officials said. He spent an hour with his
victims before declaring his murderous intent with a merciless four-word
announcement: "You have to go." Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of the slain pastor,
the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, told MSNBC that a survivor recounted how Roof
delivered one final crazed comment before the shooting started.

"I have to do it," he was quoted as saying. "You rape our women and you're
taking over our country."

Eight of the victims were found dead inside the house of worship with two
centuries of history, while the ninth died in the operating room of a nearby
hospital.

Three people survived the bloodshed, although authorities released no details
about the fortunate trio.

Roof, 21, a high school dropout and accused drug user, was nabbed after driving
245 miles from the church parking lot to the town of Shelby, N.C. - where a
woman recognized his black Hyundai and Three Stooges-style bowl haircut.

"A terrible human being who would go into a place of worship where people are
praying and kill them is now in custody - where he will always remain," said
Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley.

The mass slaying of the pastor and his flock during an evening Bible study
session was immediately labeled a hate crime, even as it echoed sad chapters
from America's violent past.

President Obama invoked the killing of four black girls in a 1963 Birmingham,
Ala., church bombing by the Ku Klux Klan. And the shooting spree harkened to
mass killings at the Sandy Hook Elementary School, a Colorado movie theater and
the carnage at Virginia Tech.

"The fact that this took place in a black church obviously . . . raises
questions about a dark part of our history," the President declared. But he also
took aim at a Congress that has repeatedly rebuffed White House efforts on gun
control.

"At some point, we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type
of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries," he said.

"And it is in our power to do something about it. I say that, recognizing the
politics in this town foreclose a lot of those avenues right now."

Obama noted that he and his wife personally knew some parishioners at the church
- including its slain pastor, who was also a South Carolina politician.

In other developments:

l The FBI learned of Roof's identity when childhood friend Joey Meek, 20,
recognized his skinny friend's face and grimy gray sweatshirt in a surveillance
camera frame grab from the church.

"I didn't THINK it was him," Meek said. "I KNEW it was him."

* Roof waived both his right to extradition and his right to counsel at a
10-minute North Carolina hearing, clearing the way for his Thursday night return
to South Carolina.

* Cops released Roof's 2015 rap sheet: A Feb. 28 bust for possession of a
controlled substance in the local mall and an April 26 arrest for trespassing at
the same mall.

* An ominous Facebook photo showed the demented mass murder suspect glaring into
the camera while wearing a black jacket decorated with an apartheid-era South
African flag.

* Roof's father, Ben, refused to comment, calling the cops on a reporter at his
South Carolina home. The suspect's uncle said the dad's 21st birthday present to
Roof in April was a .45-caliber handgun.

* The South Carolina state Legislature came under fire when the Confederate
flag, a symbol of the Civil War and slavery, flew at full staff above the
Statehouse after the racist murders.

* The multiple murder suspect's sister, 27-year-old Amber, is scheduled to get
married Sunday.

* None of the GOP presidential hopefuls - Sens. Marco Rubio, Rand Paul and Ted
Cruz - linked gun control to the mass killing at the annual Faith & Freedom
Coalition's convention.

But Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton said the time for legislation was
now. "We have to be honest," she said Thursday. "How many people do we need to
see cut down before we act?"

Charleston County Coroner Rae Wooten read off the sad litany of victims' names,
noting all were shot to death without giving any specifics.

The best known was the well-respected Rev. Pinckney, 41, who served as both
pastor and state senator. Pinckney, the father of two girls and a preaching
prodigy since age 13, was elected to the Statehouse at 23 - making him the
youngest member of the House at the time.

Three other church officials were also killed: Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, 45;
Daniel Simmons, 74; and Mira Thompson, 59. Other victims included longtime
parishioner Susie Jackson, 87, and one-time church janitor Ethel Lance, 70.

The others killed were identified as public library branch manager Cynthia Hurd,
54; college enrollment counselor DePayne Doctor, 49; and recent college graduate
Tywanza Sanders, 26.

Roof's appearance at the church meeting did not alarm any of the worshipers, who
are used to drop-ins from tourists visiting the historical building.

Authorities said the arrest of the suspect came without incident at 10:49 a.m.
after a local citizen spied Roof in his getaway car.

Roof, roughly 25 minutes after he was stopped by cops, surrendered quietly.
Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen characterized the killer as "cooperative" as
he was taken into custody by local officers. Police said the suspect was still
armed when approached by cops. Authorities believe Roof acted alone in planning
and executing the lethal attack.

The eagle-eyed citizen, a woman on her way to work at a Shelby florist,
recognized Roof's black Hyundai on Highway 74 and called her boss - who dialed
cops.

"I knew it was a black car . . . I saw pictures of him with the bowl cut," a
teary Debbie Dills told the Shelby Star newspaper after spotting the alleged
murderer. Roof was fitted by cops with a bulletproof vest and shackles on his
hands and feet before he was taken from the local police station to court.

Roof's trailer park pal Scriven, who is black, said the suspected shooter
initially plotted to target the College of Charleston and not the church.

"You don't know when to take him seriously and when not to," said Scriven. "To
be honest, I didn't react (to the news). I was like, 'Awww man, he did that
s---.' "

South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham said his niece Emily was once in the same
eighth-grade class as Roof - described by the GOP presidential hopeful as "one
of these whacked out kids."

Graham, after speaking with his sister Darline Nordone and his niece, told CNN
that his relatives had nothing positive to say about Roof.

"He was quiet, strange, very anti-social and everyone thought he was on drugs,"
said Graham. "It's about a young man who is obviously twisted."

Roof could face the death penalty under South Carolina law or federal hate crime
statutes if the case goes that route.

rblidner@nydailynews.com

GRAPHIC: MAP, Emotional crowd gathers Thursday at a candlelight vigil in front
of Emanuel AME Church, a day after massacre allegedly carried out by Dylann Roof
(left, in custody in North Carolina). AP, JAMES KEIVOM/DAILY NEWS Joey Meek (r.)
said he knew-Roof was the suspect when he saw his picture on TV (top). Roof was
captured in Shelby, N.C., about 245 miles from Charleston (map) after a woman
recognized his black Hyundai (above). A cop comforts a mourner Wednesday night
outside church. AP

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: FRONT PAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY
(90%); ARRESTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); HATE CRIME
(89%); TRAILER PARKS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); RELIGION (78%); PROTESTANTS
& PROTESTANTISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MAYORS (72%); PARKING SPACES &
FACILITIES (72%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); FIREARMS
(64%)

PUB-SUBJECT: DYLANN STORM ROOF; SHOOTING; SUSPECT; CHARLESTON; SC; RACISM; AME
CHURCH; MASS MURDER

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (50%) SOUTH CAROLINA,
USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015


                              143 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.

                             Daily News (New York)

                              June 19, 2015 Friday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: 'I have to do it. You rape our women & are taking over our country.
You have to go.'

BYLINE: BY EDGAR SANDOVAL in Charleston, S.C., RACHELLE BLIDNER and LARRY
McSHANE With Cameron Joseph

BODY:

ONE WEEK before his arrest for a racist rampage at a revered Southern church,
Dylann Storm Roof shared an apocalyptic vision of mass murder with a trailer
park neighbor.

"He was looking to kill a bunch of people," recalled Christon Scriven, 22, just
hours before his bigoted buddy's arrest for a racially motivated killing spree.
"He flat out told us he was going to do this stuff. He's just off in the head .
. . Weird."

The hate-fueled white gunman was busted Thursday morning after a 14-hour
manhunt, suspected in the execution of nine helpless black worshippers inside
the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C.

The innocent, unarmed victims ranged in age from 26 to 87 - and included the
venerable church's pastor, an acquaintance of President Obama and First Lady
Michelle.

Chilling details emerged about Roof's racist rants inside the church, the
ignored pleas of his victims as he reloaded his handgun five times - and his
release of one terrified woman to serve as a witness to the carnage.

"The shooter said, 'I'm not going to shoot you because I want you to tell
everyone what happened,' " Charleston NAACP chapter President Dot Scott told a
local newspaper - the Post and Courier - the survivor said.

Roof arrived at 8 p.m. for the Wednesday prayer meeting, bringing a heart filled
with evil and a fully loaded handgun, officials said. He spent an hour with his
victims before declaring his murderous intent with a merciless four-word
announcement: "You have to go." Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of the slain pastor,
the Rev. Clementa Pinckney, told MSNBC that a survivor recounted how Roof
delivered one final crazed comment before the shooting started.

"I have to do it," he was quoted as saying. "You rape our women and you're
taking over our country."

Eight of the victims were found dead inside the house of worship with two
centuries of history, while the ninth died in the operating room of a nearby
hospital. Three people survived the bloodshed.

Roof, 21, a high school dropout and accused drug user, was nabbed after driving
245 miles from the church parking lot to the town of Shelby, N.C. - where a
woman recognized his black Hyundai and Three Stooges-style bowl haircut.

"A terrible human being who would go into a place of worship where people are
praying and kill them is now in custody - where he will always remain," said
Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley.

The mass slaying of the pastor and his flock during an evening Bible study
session was immediately labeled a hate crime, even as it echoed sad chapters
from America's violent past.

President Obama invoked the killing of four black girls in a 1963 Birmingham,
Ala., church bombing by the Ku Klux Klan. And the shooting spree harkened to
mass killings at the Sandy Hook Elementary School, a Colorado movie theater and
the carnage at Virginia Tech.

"The fact that this took place in a black church obviously . . . raises
questions about a dark part of our history," the President declared. But he also
took aim at a Congress that has repeatedly rebuffed White House efforts on gun
control.

"At some point, we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type
of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries," he said. "And it
is in our power to do something about it. I say that, recognizing the politics
in this town foreclose a lot of those avenues right now."

Obama noted that he and his wife personally knew some parishioners at the church
- including its slain pastor, who was also a South Carolina politician.

In other developments:

* The FBI learned of Roof's identity when childhood friend Joey Meek, 20,
recognized his skinny friend's face and grimy gray sweatshirt in a surveillance
camera frame grab from the church.

"I didn't THINK it was him," Meek said. "I KNEW it was him."

* Roof waived both his right to extradition and his right to counsel and was
being held pending a bond hearing in South Carolina Thursday night.l Cops
released Roof's 2015 rap sheet: A Feb. 28 bust for possession of a controlled
substance in the local mall and an April 26 arrest for trespassing at the same
mall.

* An ominous Facebook photo showed the demented mass murder suspect glaring into
the camera while wearing a black jacket decorated with an apartheid-era South
African flag.

* Roof's father, Ben, refused to comment, calling the cops on a reporter at his
South Carolina home. The suspect's uncle said the dad's 21st birthday present to
Roof in April was a .45-caliber handgun.

* The South Carolina state Legislature came under fire when the Confederate
flag, a symbol of the Civil War and slavery, flew at full staff above the
Statehouse after the racist murders.

* The multiple murder suspect's sister, 27-year-old Amber, is scheduled to get
married Sunday.

* None of the GOP presidential hopefuls - Sens. Marco Rubio, Rand Paul and Ted
Cruz - linked gun control to the mass killing at the annual Faith & Freedom
Coalition's convention.

But Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton said the time for legislation was
now. "We have to be honest," she said Thursday. "How many people do we need to
see cut down before we act?"

Charleston County Coroner Rae Wooten read off the sad litany of victims' names,
noting all were shot to death.

The best known was the well-respected Rev. Pinckney, 41, who served as both
pastor and state senator. Pinckney, the father of two girls and a preaching
prodigy since age 13, was elected to the Statehouse at 23 - making him the
youngest member of the House at the time.

Three other church officials were also killed: Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, 45;
Rev. Daniel Simmons, 74; and Myra Thompson, 59. Other victims included longtime
parishioner Susie Jackson, 87, and one-time church janitor Ethel Lance, 70.

The others killed were identified as public library branch manager Cynthia Hurd,
54; college enrollment counselor DePayne Middleton-Doctor, 49; and recent
college grad Tywanza Sanders, 26.

Jackson's niece, Cynthia Taylor, said she had spoken to a survivor, Felecia
Sanders, who said she had played dead as she lay on top of her granddaughter to
protect them both during the carnage.

Roof's appearance at the church meeting did not alarm any of the worshipers, who
are used to drop-ins from tourists visiting the historical building.

Authorities said the arrest of the suspect came without incident at 10:49 a.m.
after a local citizen spied Roof in his getaway car.

Roof, roughly 25 minutes after he was stopped by cops, surrendered quietly.
Charleston Police Chief Greg Mullen characterized the killer as "cooperative" as
he was taken into custody by local officers. Police said the suspect was still
armed when approached by cops. Authorities believe Roof acted alone in planning
and executing the lethal attack.

The eagle-eyed citizen, a woman on her way to work at a Shelby florist,
recognized Roof's black Hyundai on Highway 74 and called her boss - who dialed
cops.

"I knew it was a black car . . . I saw pictures of him with the bowl cut," a
teary Debbie Dills told the Shelby Star newspaper after spotting the alleged
murderer. Roof was fitted by cops with a bulletproof vest and shackles on his
hands and feet before he was taken from the local police station to court.

Roof's trailer park pal Scriven, who is black, said the suspected shooter
initially plotted to target the College of Charleston and not the church.

"You don't know when to take him seriously and when not to," said Scriven. "To
be honest, I didn't react (to the news). I was like, 'Awww man, he did that
s---.' "

South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham said his niece Emily was once in the same
eighth-grade class as Roof - described by the GOP presidential hopeful as "one
of these whacked out kids."

Graham, after speaking with his sister Darline Nordone and his niece, told CNN
that his relatives had nothing positive to say about Roof.

"He was quiet, strange, very anti-social and everyone thought he was on drugs,"
said Graham. "It's about a young man who is obviously twisted."

Roof could face the death penalty under South Carolina law or federal hate crime
statutes if the case goes that route.

GRAPHIC: MAP, Emotional crowd gathers Thursday at a candlelight vigil in front
of Emanuel AME Church, a day after massacre allegedly carried out by Dylann Roof
(left, in custody in North Carolina). AP, JAMES KEIVOM/DAILY NEWS Joey Meek (r.)
said he knew-Roof was the suspect when he saw his picture on TV (top). Roof was
captured in Shelby, N.C., about 245 miles from Charleston (map) after Debbie
Dills (l.) recognized his Hyundai (above). A cop comforts a mourner Wednesday
night outside church. AP

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: FRONT PAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY
(90%); ARRESTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); HATE CRIME
(89%); TRAILER PARKS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); RELIGION (78%); PROTESTANTS
& PROTESTANTISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MAYORS (72%); PARKING SPACES &
FACILITIES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT
(69%); FIREARMS (64%)

PUB-SUBJECT: DYLANN STORM ROOF; SHOOTING; SUSPECT; CHARLESTON; SC; RACISM; AME
CHURCH; MASS MURDER

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (50%) SOUTH CAROLINA,
USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015


                              144 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                              Copyright 2015 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved
                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

SECTION: Vol. LXIX No. 176

LENGTH: 557  words

HEADLINE: Aamir Khan moves bail plea in ATC

BODY:

 An antiterrorism court issued on Thursday a notice to a prosecutor on a bail
application of Muttahida Qaumi Movement leader Aamir Khan in a case pertaining
to instigating terrorism and harbouring criminals.

The Pakistan Rangers had detained the MQM leader with dozens of other suspects
for three-month preventive detention after their arrest during a raid in and
around the party headquarters, Nine Zero, in Azizabad on March 11 and recently
booked him for allegedly providing shelter to criminals and using them for
terrorist activities.

Aamir Khan through his counsel moved a bail application and the judge of ATC-II
issued a notice to a special public prosecutor on the application for Friday.

Copies of the prosecution's documents were also provided to the suspect, a
mandatory procedure before indictment, as required under Section 265-C (supply
of statements and documents to accused) of the criminal procedure code.

The prosecution said that the paramilitary force had also arrested 26 armed
suspects, including Faisal Mehmood alias Mota, who had been sentenced to death
by a court in absentia for the murder of journalist Wali Khan Babar, and other
wanted and absconding suspects during the March 11 raid.

It further said that the MQM leader was in charge of the party headquarters
security and he with five others had allegedly provided shelter to arrested
criminals and had been using them for terrorist activities in the city.

A case was registered under Sections 11V (directing terrorist activities), 21J
(harbouring any person who committed an offence under this act) and 7
(punishment for act of terrorism) of the Anti-Terrorism Act, 1997 on a complaint
of a Rangers official at the Azizabad police station.

Remand in double murder case extended

An antiterrorism court extended on Thursday the physical remand of a suspect in
a double murder case till July 5.

Umair Hassan Siddiqui, said to be a worker of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement, has
been booked for allegedly killing two tea vendors Niaz Gul and Iqbal Hussain in
Gulshan-e-Maymar in April 2013.

After the end of his first remand, the police again produced the suspect in
court. Special public prosecutor of the Rangers Rana Khalid submitted that the
suspect was placed under 90-day preventive detention by the paramilitary force
in March and he confessed before a joint investigation team to his alleged
involvement in dozens of cases of targeted killing.

The prosecutor sought extension in the physical remand of the suspect for
further questioning and arrest of his accomplices.

Defence lawyer Latif Pasha, who is also a member of the MQM legal aid committee,
opposed the extension in police custody and contended that the allegations were
baseless as the prosecution could not bring out any incriminating evidence
against the suspect despite keeping him in detention for three months.

The judge of the ATC-II granted a 10-day extension in the physical remand of the
suspect and asked the investigating officer to produce him in court with a
progress report on the next hearing.

Meanwhile, another ATC remanded on Thursday the same suspect in police custody
for two weeks in a case pertaining to the murder of a paramilitary soldier.

The suspect was accused of killing Rangers personnel Shaukat near the Suparco
office within the jurisdiction of the Mobina Town police station in 2010.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); BAIL (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ARRESTS (90%);
PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%);
ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (78%);
HOMICIDE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LAWYERS (75%); SENTENCING (73%); LEGAL
AID (73%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); POLICE FORCES (69%); TEA (61%); MURDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) KARACHI PAKISTAN (93%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015


                              145 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                              Copyright 2015 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved
                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            June 24, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: Vol. LXIX No. 174

LENGTH: 620  words

HEADLINE: Charge-sheet filed against Aamir Khan in ATC

BYLINE: ISHAQ TANOLI

BODY:

 Police submitted on Tuesday a charge-sheet in an antiterrorism court against
Muttahida Qaumi Movement leader Aamir Khan in a case of instigating terrorism
and harbouring criminals.

The Pakistan Rangers had detained the MQM leader with dozens of other suspects
for three months following their arrest during a raid in and around the party
headquarters, Nine Zero, in Azizabad on March 11 and recently booked him for
allegedly providing shelter to criminals and using them for terrorist
activities.

The investigating officer, Inspector Mohsin Hasan Zaidi, through a special
public prosecutor of Rangers submitted the investigation report in court in
which he charge-sheeted Aamir Khan for allegedly instigating terrorism and
harbouring criminals.

The IO did not name anyone as absconding accused and placed six officials of
Rangers and police as prosecution witnesses in the charge-sheet.

After admitting the investigation report for hearing, the ATC-II judge fixed
June 25 for supply of copies of the report to the suspect, a mandatory procedure
before indictment, as required under Section 265-C (supply of statements and
documents to accused) of the criminal procedure code.

The paramilitary force had placed the MQM leader with around 60 others under
90-day preventive detention after the raid and informed court that they had
credible information about their alleged involvement in offences related to
targeted killing and terrorism.

On June 4, the Rangers handed Aamir Khan over to the police after registering a
case against him and the following day police got his one-week physical remand.
On June 12, court remanded the MQM leader in prison and asked the police to file
an investigation report.

According to the prosecution, around 59 suspects, including Aamir Khan, were
placed under preventive detention and the paramilitary force had also arrested
26 armed suspects, including Faisal Mehmood alias Mota, who was sentenced to
death by a court in absentia for the murder of journalist Wali Khan Babar; Obaid
alias K2, who was wanted in many cases; and Noman alias Nomi, an absconder in
the Advocate Niamat Ali Randhawa murder case during the March 11 raid.

It alleged that the MQM leader and others admitted during questioning that Aamir
Khan was in charge of the party headquarters security and he with Minhaj Qazi,
Raees Mama, Shahzad Mullah, Imran Ijaz Niazi and Naeem alias Mullah had
allegedly provided shelter to the arrested suspects and had been using them for
terrorist activities in the city.

A joint investigation team recommended the registration of a case against the
MQM leader and others, the prosecution concluded.

The case was registered under Sections 11V (directing terrorist activities), 21J
(harbouring any person who committed an offence under this act) and 7
(punishment for act of terrorism) of the Anti-Terrorism Act, 1997 on a complaint
of Rangers Deputy Superintendent Ashraf Hussain at the Azizabad police station.

Rangers detain 11 ST men for three months

Pakistan Rangers, Sindh, informed an antiterrorism court on Tuesday about the
90-day preventive detention of 11 workers of the Sunni Tehreek (ST) for
questioning.

Rangers along with their legal team produced Rizwan alias Guddu, Arif Mansoori,
Jawad Qadri, Akram alias Kala, Farhan alias Baba, Imran Saeedi, Muhammad Alam,
Shakeel alias Fuji, Salman alias Mirchi, Zubair Ali and Noor Alam in the chamber
of the judge in charge of the ATC-III, Akhlaq Hussain Larak, amid tight
security.

They submitted that the detainees were picked up during a raid on the office of
the ST upon receiving credible information about their involvement in targeted
killing, extortion and other offences which fall within the ambit of the
Anti-Terrorism Act, 1997.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%);
PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS
(89%); LITIGATION (89%); ARRESTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (79%); INTERROGATION OF
SUSPECTS (79%); WITNESSES (79%); INDICTMENTS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); DECISIONS
& RULINGS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); TRIAL
& PROCEDURE (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); PRISONS
(71%); RELIGION (60%); MURDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) KARACHI PAKISTAN (94%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2015


                              146 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved
                               Right Vision News

                             June 25, 2015 Thursday

LENGTH: 488  words

HEADLINE: Pakistan: Charge sheet against Amir Khan submitted to ATC

DATELINE: KARACHI

BODY:

KARACHI, June 25 -- An interim charge sheet against Muttahida Qaumi Movement
leader Amir Khan was submitted before an anti-terrorism court on Tuesday. Khan
is facing charges of assisting criminals.

He was arrested on March 11 along with dozens of others MQM activists when
Rangers raided party headquarters Nine Zero and its adjoining area.

He was remanded in Rangers custody for 90 days. Later, he was handed over to
police on judicial remand.

Now an interim-charge sheet has been submitted that mentions several detained
MQM activists who are ready to testify against Khan including Ubaid alias K2,
Farhan Bashir and Faisal alias Mota. There are 26 witnesses in the case. The
court will hear the case on June 25.

The MQM leader was picked up along with dozens of other suspects by Rangers in a
pre-dawn raid at and around party headquarters Nine Zero in Azizabad.

While placing them under a 90-day preventive detention, the paramilitary force
had informed a court that they had credible information about their alleged
involvement in offences related to targete killings and terrorism.

On June 4, Rangers handed over the MQM leader to the police after registering a
case against him and others for allegedly harbouring criminals and using them
for terrorist activities.

Police produced Khan before the anti-terrorism court-II and the investigating
officer sought his custody for two weeks for questioning.

However, the judge of anti-terrorism court handed over the MQM leader to police
on physical remand for one week and asked the investigating officer to produce
him at the next hearing along with a progress report.

Khalid Maqbool Siddiqui and other party leaders were also present in the court
during the hearing, while dozens of female activists of the MQM staged a protest
demonstration outside the court.

According to the FIR, Rangers, in the March 11 raid, had arrested 26 armed
suspects including Faisal Mehmood alias Mota, who was sentenced to death by a
court in absentia for the murder of journalist Wali Khan Babar; Obaid alias K2,
who was wanted in many cases; and Noman alias Nomi, an absconder in the Advocate
Niamat Ali Randhawa murder case.

Besides, 59 others suspects Amir Khan had also been arrested during the raid and
placed under preventive detention, it was stated in the FIR.

It alleged that the MQM leader and others had admitted during questioning that
Khan was the in-charge of the party headquarters' security and he along with
Minhaj Qazi, Raees Mama, Shahzad Mullah, Imran Ijaz Niazi and Naeem alias Mullah
had allegedly provided shelter to arrested criminals and been using them for
terrorist activities.

A joint investigation team had recommended the registration of a case against
the MQM leader and others

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); ARRESTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM
(90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); LITIGATION (89%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT
(78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%);
INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); SENTENCING
(73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); JOURNALISM (68%); WRITERS (61%); MEDIA SYNDICATION
(61%); RELIGION (60%); MURDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (92%) PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015


                              147 of 161 DOCUMENTS


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            June 24, 2015 Wednesday

LENGTH: 454  words

HEADLINE: Charge sheet against Amir Khan submitted to ATC

DATELINE: KARACHI

BODY:

 An interim charge sheet against Muttahida Qaumi Movement leader Amir Khan was
submitted before an anti-terrorism court on Tuesday. Khan is facing charges of
assisting criminals.

He was arrested on March 11 along with dozens of others MQM activists when
Rangers raided party headquarters Nine Zero and its adjoining area.



He was remanded in Rangers custody for 90 days. Later, he was handed over to
police on judicial remand.

Now an interim-charge sheet has been submitted that mentions several detained
MQM activists who are ready to testify against Khan including Ubaid alias K2,
Farhan Bashir and Faisal alias Mota. There are 26 witnesses in the case. The
court will hear the case on June 25.

The MQM leader was picked up along with dozens of other suspects by Rangers in a
pre-dawn raid at and around party headquarters Nine Zero in Azizabad.

While placing them under a 90-day preventive detention, the paramilitary force
had informed a court that they had credible information about their alleged
involvement in offences related to targete killings and terrorism.

On June 4, Rangers handed over the MQM leader to the police after registering a
case against him and others for allegedly harbouring criminals and using them
for terrorist activities.

Police produced Khan before the anti-terrorism court-II and the investigating
officer sought his custody for two weeks for questioning.

However, the judge of anti-terrorism court handed over the MQM leader to police
on physical remand for one week and asked the investigating officer to produce
him at the next hearing along with a progress report.

Khalid Maqbool Siddiqui and other party leaders were also present in the court
during the hearing, while dozens of female activists of the MQM staged a protest
demonstration outside the court.

According to the FIR, Rangers, in the March 11 raid, had arrested 26 armed
suspects including Faisal Mehmood alias Mota, who was sentenced to death by a
court in absentia for the murder of journalist Wali Khan Babar; Obaid alias K2,
who was wanted in many cases; and Noman alias Nomi, an absconder in the Advocate
Niamat Ali Randhawa murder case.

Besides, 59 others suspects Amir Khan had also been arrested during the raid and
placed under preventive detention, it was stated in the FIR.

It alleged that the MQM leader and others had admitted during questioning that
Khan was the in-charge of the party headquarters' security and he along with
Minhaj Qazi, Raees Mama, Shahzad Mullah, Imran Ijaz Niazi and Naeem alias Mullah
had allegedly provided shelter to arrested criminals and been using them for
terrorist activities.

A joint investigation team had recommended the registration of a case against
the MQM leader and others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); ARRESTS
(90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); LITIGATION (89%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT
(78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%);
INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); SENTENCING
(73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); RELIGION (60%); MURDER (58%)

PUB-SUBJECT: National

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015


                              148 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved
                             The News International

                            June 24, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: Vol. 25 No. 120

LENGTH: 451  words

HEADLINE: Charge sheet against Amir Khan submitted to ATC

BODY:

 An interim charge sheet against Muttahida Qaumi Movement leader Amir Khan was
submitted before an anti-terrorism court on Tuesday. Khan is facing charges of
assisting criminals.

He was arrested on March 11 along with dozens of others MQM activists when
Rangers raided party headquarters Nine Zero and its adjoining area.

He was remanded in Rangers custody for 90 days. Later, he was handed over to
police on judicial remand.

Now an interim-charge sheet has been submitted that mentions several detained
MQM activists who are ready to testify against Khan including Ubaid alias K2,
Farhan Bashir and Faisal alias Mota. There are 26 witnesses in the case. The
court will hear the case on June 25.

The MQM leader was picked up along with dozens of other suspects by Rangers in a
pre-dawn raid at and around party headquarters Nine Zero in Azizabad.

While placing them under a 90-day preventive detention, the paramilitary force
had informed a court that they had credible information about their alleged
involvement in offences related to targete killings and terrorism.

On June 4, Rangers handed over the MQM leader to the police after registering a
case against him and others for allegedly harbouring criminals and using them
for terrorist activities.

Police produced Khan before the anti-terrorism court-II and the investigating
officer sought his custody for two weeks for questioning.

However, the judge of anti-terrorism court handed over the MQM leader to police
on physical remand for one week and asked the investigating officer to produce
him at the next hearing along with a progress report.

Khalid Maqbool Siddiqui and other party leaders were also present in the court
during the hearing, while dozens of female activists of the MQM staged a protest
demonstration outside the court.

According to the FIR, Rangers, in the March 11 raid, had arrested 26 armed
suspects including Faisal Mehmood alias Mota, who was sentenced to death by a
court in absentia for the murder of journalist Wali Khan Babar; Obaid alias K2,
who was wanted in many cases; and Noman alias Nomi, an absconder in the Advocate
Niamat Ali Randhawa murder case.

Besides, 59 others suspects Amir Khan had also been arrested during the raid and
placed under preventive detention, it was stated in the FIR.

It alleged that the MQM leader and others had admitted during questioning that
Khan was the in-charge of the party headquarters security and he along with
Minhaj Qazi, Raees Mama, Shahzad Mullah, Imran Ijaz Niazi and Naeem alias Mullah
had allegedly provided shelter to arrested criminals and been using them for
terrorist activities.

A joint investigation team had recommended the registration of a case against
the MQM leader and others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); ARRESTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM
(90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); LITIGATION (89%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT
(78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%);
INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); SENTENCING
(73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); RELIGION (60%); MURDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) Karachi PAKISTAN (79%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015


                              149 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2015 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              Scottish Daily Mail

                              June 1, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: US police killing 2 suspects a day

BODY:

POLICE in the US are killing people at a rate of more than two a day, according
to a report.

At least 385 citizens have been shot and killed so far this year with black men
killed at three times the rate of whites and other minorities when adjusted for
local population.

The finding by the Washington Post comes after riots in Baltimore and Missouri.
Debate is raging over police use of deadly force, especially against black and
Hispanic minorities.

In the majority of the killings, officers were confronted by suspects armed with
guns, knives and even a hammer. One in six of those killed was either unarmed or
carrying a toy.

One of the most controversial shootings was in Ferguson, Missouri, last summer
when unarmed Michael Brown, 18, was shot dead as he advanced on police officer
Darren Wilson. His death sparked mass rioting. Wilson was later cleared of
wrongdoing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); RIOTS
(89%); MICHAEL BROWN SHOOTING (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (88%); HISPANIC AMERICANS
(88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) Scotland

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2015


                              150 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              June 1, 2015 Monday

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: US POLICE KILLING 2 SUSPECTS A DAY

BYLINE: BY NO BYLINE AVAILABLE

BODY:

POLICE in the US are killing people at a rate of more than two a day, according
to a report.

At least 385 citizens have been shot and killed so far this year with black men
killed at three times the rate of whites and other minorities when adjusted for
local population.

The finding by the Washington Post comes after riots in Baltimore and Missouri.
Debate is raging over police use of deadly force, especially against black and
Hispanic minorities.

In the majority of the killings, officers were confronted by suspects armed with
guns, knives and even a hammer. One in six of those killed was either unarmed or
carrying a toy.

One of the most controversial shootings was in Ferguson, Missouri, last summer
when unarmed Michael Brown, 18, was shot dead as he advanced on police officer
Darren Wilson. His death sparked mass rioting. Wilson was later cleared of
wrongdoing.

© Daily Mail

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); RIOTS
(89%); MICHAEL BROWN SHOOTING (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (88%); HISPANIC AMERICANS
(88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2015


                              151 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.

                             Daily News (New York)

                              May 24, 2015 Sunday
                                 METRO EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Rage in Cleveland Cop cleared in 137-shot outburst that killed 2

BYLINE: BY MELISSA CHAN and DEBORAH HASTINGS NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

BODY:

THE ACQUITTAL Saturday of a white Cleveland cop for firing the final blasts of a
137-shot police barrage that killed two unarmed blacks ignited outrage and
protests.

Police Officer Michael Brelo, 31, was the only one of the 13 officers who opened
fire in November 2012 to face criminal charges - and a Cleveland judge found him
not guilty in the bench trial.

Prosecutors charged Brelo unloaded 49 shots, including a 15-bullet fusillade
while standing on the hood of the car and blasting through the windshield at
victims Timothy Russell, 43, and Malissa Williams, 30.

Brelo wept, held his head in his hands and occasionally made the sign of the
cross as Judge John O'Donnell found him not guilty.

The shooting followed a 62-car, 100 mph chase that one prosecutor said looked
like a clip from the movie "The Blues Brothers." The chase was triggered in
downtown Cleveland after cops reacted to what they believed was a gunshot, but
was instead Russell's Chevy Malibu backfiring.

Russell was shot 23 times, and Williams was struck by 24 bullets.

Neither victim was armed. More than 200 angry but peaceful protesters
immediately took to the Cleveland streets, some carrying signs asking, "Will I
be next?"

Racial tensions in Cleveland were already strained by the killing six months ago
of Tamir Rice, a 12-year-old black boy shot to death by a rookie white cop. The
pre-teen was carrying a pellet gun.

"This verdict is another chilling reminder of a broken relationship between the
Cleveland police department and the community it serves," said U.S. Rep. Marcia
Fudge.

Cleveland community activist Carole Steiner agreed: "Police murder people of
color and not have to serve one day in jail."

Russell's sister, Michelle, called for peaceful protests and stressed the ruling
was not the final word.

"He's not going to dodge this just because he was acquitted," she said. "God
will have the final say."

But the U.S. Justice Department may get a crack at the case first. A review of
evidence in the state trial could lead to a federal civil rights prosecution of
Brelo, who was facing 22 years in prison before being cleared of voluntary
manslaughter.

GRAPHIC: Michael Brelo (center) was one of 13 officers who fired during a
high-speed chase, killing Timothy Russell (l.) and Melissa Williams (r.).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACQUITTAL (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%);
VERDICTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MURDER (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%);
MANSLAUGHTER (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); COMMUNITY
ACTIVISM (77%); EVIDENCE (76%); JUDGES (76%); VOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER (72%);
CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%)

PERSON: MARCIA FUDGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015


                              152 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                              Copyright 2015 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved
                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                             June 13, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: Vol. LXIX No. 163

LENGTH: 459  words

HEADLINE: Amir Khan remanded in judicial custody

BYLINE: Ishaq Tanoli

BODY:

 An antiterrorism court on Friday remanded Muttahida Qaumi Movement leader Amir
Khan in judicial custody in a case of instigating terrorism and harbouring
criminals.

After the end of his one-week physical remand, police produced the MQM leader in
court again amid tight security.

The investigating officer submitted that he be sent to prison as his custody was
no longer needed for questioning. The ATC-II judge sent Amir Khan to prison on
judicial remand till June 25 and asked the IO to submit an investigation report
till next hearing.

Defence lawyer Shaukat Hayat moved an application seeking B-class (better
facilities) in prison for the MQM leader by submitting that his client was
entitled to it under Section 248 of the Prison Rules as he was a postgraduate
and also a taxpayer.

The court provisionally allowed the application subject to the verification of
the degree and tax record.

The MQM leader was picked up with dozens of other suspects by the Rangers in a
pre-dawn raid on and around the party headquarters Nine Zero in Azizabad on
March 11.

While placing them under 90-day preventive detention, the paramilitary force had
informed a court that they had credible information about their alleged
involvement in crimes related to targeted killing and terrorism.

On June 4, the Rangers handed over the MQM leader to the police after
registering a case against him and others for allegedly harbouring criminals and
using them for terrorist activities and the following day he was remanded in
police custody for a week.

According to the FIR, besides around 59 suspects, including Amir Khan, placed
under preventive detention, the paramilitary force had also arrested during the
March 11 raid 26 armed suspects, including Faisal Mehmood alias Faisal Mota, who
was sentenced to death by a court in absentia for the murder of journalist Wali
Khan Babar; Obaid alias K2, who was wanted in many cases; and Noman alias Nomi,
an absconder in the Advocate Niamat Ali Randhawa murder case.

It alleged that the MQM leader and others admitted during questioning that Amir
Khan was in charge of the party headquarters security and he with Minhaj Qazi,
Raees Mama, Shahzad Mullah, Imran Ijaz Niazi and Naeem alias Mullah had
allegedly provided shelter to arrested criminals and had been using them for
terrorist activities in the city.

A joint investigation team recommended the registration of a case against the
MQM leader and others, the FIR concluded.

The case was registered at the Azizabad police station on a complaint of Rangers
Deputy Superintendent Ashraf Hussain under Sections 11V (directing terrorist
activities), 21J (harbouring any person who committed an offence under this act)
and 7 (punishment for act of terrorism) of the Anti-Terrorism Act, 1997.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); PRISONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM
(90%); LITIGATION (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
(89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); SENTENCING
(78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); SETTLEMENTS &
DECISIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CORRECTIONS (78%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%);
POLICE FORCES (77%); LAWYERS (75%); JUDGES (73%); RELIGION (60%); MURDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (75%) KARACHI PAKISTAN (79%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2015


                              153 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             June 16, 2015 Tuesday
                                Chennai Edition

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: Hindu Munnani man hacked to death

BODY:

A 32-year-old Hindu Munnani leader in Avadi was hacked to death on Monday
evening. Police said Ezhil Murugan was talking to his friends when the suspect,
Kapali alias B Damodaran, armed with a hammer, attacked Ezhil Murugan on the
head.Murugan's friends intervened and rushed him to the Avadi government
hospital where he was declared brought dead on arrival."There is no communal
angle behind the murder," said a police officer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2015


                              154 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 The Vancouver Province
                              All Rights Reserved
                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Suspect in slaying believed to be armed, dangerous: RCMP

BYLINE: Cheryl Chan, The Province

BODY:

Police have issued a warrant for the arrest of a 34-year-old Surrey man wanted
in the Mother's Day domestic slaying of a young mom.

Gordon Alexander David, also known as Alex David, is accused of killing his
wife, Cady Quaw, 23. He is wanted for manslaughter and aggravated assault, and
is believed to be armed and dangerous.

The Integrated Homicide Investigation Team issued the notice Monday, a day after
officers found Quaw injured in a basement suite in the 9400-block 140th Street.
Quaw succumbed to her injuries in hospital.

Another woman was also found injured in the home. She remains in stable
condition.

Rita Quaw was stunned to hear about the news of her cousin's death.

"It was a shock," said the 38-yearold Penticton woman. "I felt like it's finally
sunk in today. I babysat her for most of my life, and I feel like crap."

Quaw has a large family who are grieving their loss. She leaves behind a
daughter, who she took care of in Surrey, and a son, who lived in northern B.C.,
said Rita.

Her cousin was a soft-spoken and quiet woman, but strong, said Rita: "She was
going through a lot of stuff, but she was very loving, especially towards her
dad and mom and brothers and sister."

Rita said Quaw spent her childhood on the Saik'uz First Nation reserve outside
Vanderhoof. David was from the same reserve and the two grew up together.

But she had fallen out of touch with her cousin, whom she last saw in 2009.

"She was like a daughter to me growing up.

"I wish I had the chance to repair our relationship before this happened," she
said.

Provincial court records show David has a long criminal history and has been a
repeat visitor to many B.C. courthouses, from Vanderhoof and Fort St. James to
Surrey, Vancouver and New Westminster.

He was expected to appear in New Westminster court later this month on a slew of
charges, including assault, uttering threats, theft, robbery and breaches.

David is described as five-foot-six, about 160 pounds, with black hair, brown
eyes and a slim build. On his right forearm is a tattoo of comedy and tragedy
masks and skulls.

Anyone who knows the whereabouts of David shouldn't approach him, but should
call 911, police said. chchan@theprovince.com twitter.com/cherylchan
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

GRAPHIC: Cady Quaw - Facebook Files/;

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMICIDE (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (90%); ARRESTS
(90%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (79%);
MANSLAUGHTER (78%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ROBBERY
(76%); NATIVE AMERICANS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (60%)

PUB-SUBJECT: police,issued,warrant,arrest,surrey,wanted

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (54%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (54%) CANADA
(54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                              155 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved
                          Argus Weekend (South Africa)

                                  May 31, 2015
                                   E1 Edition

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Man shot dead in Gugulethu Mall crossfire was street vendor

BYLINE:  ASANDA SOKANYILE

BODY:

A STREET vendor was killed in the crossfire between security guards and robbers
at the Gugulethu Mall on Friday.

Farai Fambira, a 39-year-old Zimbabwean, made a living selling DVDs, CDs and
padlocks at the entrance of the mall, to support his wife and three children who
live in Zimbabwe.

Fambira had just set up his stall when a group of five robbers attempted to rob
a cash-in-transit vehicle.

Witnesses said Fambira hid behind a dairy truck when the shooting started.

"We all fell to the ground as soon as we heard the gunshots. Rasta (Fambira) hid
behind that truck because it was closest to his stall."

Witnesses say that the security guards may have mistaken Fambira for a robber.

"We kept shouting that he wasn't one of the robbers but the security guards just
wouldn't stop shooting.

"There were many shots, the two guards were standing over Rasta and one was even
kicking him," said street vendor Phumeza Mangaliso.

Police spokesman AndrÃ¨ Traut confirmed the incident and said one of the robbers
was injured and was in police custody.

"Five armed suspects opened fire on two security officers who were transporting
cash, and in the crossfire a male bystander was fatally wounded. One of the
suspects was wounded and subsequently arrested and is being treated ," said
Traut.

He said the security guards escaped unharmed and no cash was stolen.

"The remaining four suspects fled the scene and are yet to be arrested. The
matter is still under investigation."

Togar Mabharani, Fambira's relative said he was woken by people who were at the
scene when his cousin was killed.

"According to the witnesses they tried to shout and inform the security guards
that he was not one of the robbers but they went ahead and shot him |anyway.

"He was not a criminal, he just sold his things to feed his family," says
Mabharani.

asanda.sokanyile@inl.co.za

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CZ

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%);
ROBBERY (90%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); WITNESSES (89%); HOMICIDE (78%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (78%); DEATHS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ARRESTS (76%);
INVESTIGATIONS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); POLICE FORCES (67%)

PUB-SUBJECT: WeekendArgus.News

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2015


                              156 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.

                             Daily News (New York)

                              May 26, 2015 Tuesday
                              SPORTS EXTRA EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: COMIC KOOK Family-killing U.K. 'Wolverine' found dead

BYLINE: BY SASHA GOLDSTEIN NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

BODY:

A BRITISH "Wolverine" wannabe who slaughtered three family members before
fleeing the scene has been found dead, cops said Monday.

Authorities found the body of Jed Allen, a 21-year-old obsessed with the hairy,
clawed comic book character, in a wooded area in Oxford, some 13 miles north of
the gruesome triple-murder scene in Didcot.

The family home in the tranquil Thames Valley was turned into a blood-spattered
mess after the disturbed, knife-obsessed Allen went on a Saturday rampage,
murdering his mother, Janet Jordon, 48; her boyfriend, Philip Howard, 44, and
the couple's 6-year-old daughter, Derrin - his sister.

"Members of the public reported finding the body of a man in a wooded area in
Oxford, in Marston Road," Detective Superintendent Chris Ward, of the Thames
Valley Police, said at a news conference Monday evening, Sky News reported.
"This is an area that had not been previously searched by police as a result of
this investigation.

"No formal identification has taken place but I am satisfied that this is the
body of Jed Allen, who I had previously named as a suspect in this
investigation," Ward said. "The members of all of the victims' families have
been informed, and they are being supported by specially trained officers.

"While the investigation into this matter will continue, I am not seeking
anybody else in connection with the offense," he added. "I would like to offer
my condolences to all of the families of the victims in this tragic case."

Armed police had been desperately seeking the tattooed weightlifter, who had
posted a series of bizarre, rambling videos online before the triple homicide.
He also left dozens of photos on his social media accounts, detailing a
fascination with weapons and brooding comic book anti-heroes, primarily X-Men's
Wolverine.

Allen, sporting the character's signature sideburns, posed in one selfie with
serrated steak knives arranged between his fingers like claws.

"F--- it's wolverine," he wrote in the caption.

In other pics, he brandished an ax, bolt clippers and a 10-inch hunting knife.

It's unclear how the wanted killer died.

sgoldstein@nydailynews.com

GRAPHIC: Brit cops say they've found body of Jed Allen (l.), wanted in murders
of his mom and sister (inset) and his mom's boyfriend. Candles lit by classmates
of Derrin Jordan, 6, honor the tot murdered by her comic book-obsessed brother,
Jed Allen. Police and forensic officers work at crime scene Monday near Didcot,
England. LONDON NEWS PICTURES/ZUMA WIRE; AP

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); MURDER (90%); DEATHS (89%); HOMICIDE (78%);
SELFIES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); WEIGHTLIFTING (65%); SOCIAL MEDIA (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OXFORD, ENGLAND (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) ENGLAND (93%); UNITED
KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2015


                              157 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2015 Greenville Herald-Banner
                        Greenville Herald-Banner (Texas)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 11, 2015 Monday

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Pretrial hearing set in carjacking case

BYLINE: Brad Kellar, The Herald Banner, Greenville, Texas

BODY:

May 11--A hearing is scheduled in state district court this week for a Caddo
Mills woman facing multiple charges of armed robbery in connection with a
reported July 2014 carjacking in Greenville.

A second defendant charged in the same incident reportedly committed suicide
after being sought in connection with an unrelated murder case.

Amber Rae Melton has pleaded not guilty to three indictments for aggravated
robbery with a deadly weapon.

A pretrial hearing is set Tuesday morning in the 354th District Court, with jury
selection currently scheduled for June 1.

The indictments involve the alleged victims of an armed robbery reported in
Greenville early on the morning of July 19, 2014.

Melton was alleged to have been acting alongside Thomas Isaac Medlin of Dallas
in the theft of a pickup truck at gunpoint. Melton remains in custody at the
Hunt County Jail.

Three individuals told officers  with the Greenville Police Department they met
Medlin and Melton at a local store and agreed to give them a ride across town in
a 2005 Chevrolet pick-up. Upon arrival in the 4100 Block of Park Street, Medlin
allegedly produced a handgun, ordered the three men to exit the vehicle and to
leave the contents of their pockets in the truck. Medlin and Melton then
allegedly left in the stolen truck.

Medlin pleaded guilty in September 2014 to a reduced charge of robbery and was
released on probation.

But an arrest warrant on a charge of murder was later issued for Medlin,
involving the Nov. 10, 2014 homicide of Eddie Cabellero Lopez in Greenville.

A Nov. 14, 2014 law enforcement manhunt near Wolfe City in connection with
Lopez's death resulted in Medlin's death.

___ (c)2015 The Herald Banner (Greenville, Texas) Visit The Herald Banner
(Greenville, Texas) at www.heraldbanner.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GC

SUBJECT: ROBBERY (92%); CARJACKING (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); MURDER (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); PROBATION (78%);
CORRECTIONS (78%); VEHICLE THEFT (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(76%); JURY DUTY (73%); ARREST WARRANTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); POLICE
FORCES (73%); SUICIDE (72%)

INDUSTRY: General

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (55%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                              158 of 161 DOCUMENTS


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
                            The Warrnambool Standard

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: TWO Portland men were remanded in custody yesterday

BYLINE: ANDREW THOMSON

BODY:

TWO Portland men were remanded in custody yesterday after being charged with
serious assault offences relating to a horrific home invasion.

Daniel Hollands, 27, of Finn Street, did not apply for bail, while Payton Reiri,
22, of Daniel Street, was refused bail in the Warrnambool Magistrates Court.

They were remanded in custody until a filing hearing on September 22.

Police alleged Mr Hollands, Mr Reiri and other armed men went to a Portland home
in Waratah Crescent on Thursday last week and bashed and stabbed a drug dealer.

The victim suffered a severe laceration to his left cheek which exposed his
teeth and required 27 stitches .

Other injuries included multiple fractures to his arms, legs, fingers, knee,
feet and face. He is expected to remain in a Melbourne hospital for about 10
weeks.

A 16-year-old girl was also hit with a baseball bat, suffering a fracture to her
back, and the incident happened while there was a nine-year-old boy in the home.

Detective Sergeant James Sullivan, of the armed crime squad, told the court the
victim was a low-level drug dealer and Mr Hollands was his competition. He said
the victim was told to stop trafficking drugs, threatened and told to leave
Portland, which he did.

But he had recently returned and there was an $18,000 bounty on his head for
anyone who assaulted him.

Detective Sergeant Sullivan said the reason the girl was assaulted was because
she had not told Mr Hollands and Mr Reiri the victim was back in town. He said
the girl told officers that police had "signed her death warrant" if Mr Hollands
and Mr Reiri were released from custody.

One of the offences the men have been charged with, intentionally causing
serious injury in circumstances of gross violence, carries a minimum four-year
jail sentence.

Detective Sergeant Sullivan said it was usual that the only question Mr Reiri
asked of police was who had named him.

He said to call it a stabbing was to understate the action of Mr Hollands, with
the victim's wound going from high on the cheekbone to the jaw.

"He has deliberately run the blade along his face," Detective Sergeant Sullivan
said.

Detective Senior Constable Tim McKerracher said Mr Reiri was armed with a metal
baseball bat and Mr Hollands with a knife. He said the men surrounded the home
and then forced entry by kicking in the front and back door. When the victim
tried to barricade himself in a bedroom, the men forced their way in and struck
him more than 50 times.

He was dragged out of the bedroom, struck about 200 times and then stabbed the
man to the face by Mr Hollands while he was held down by Mr Reiri.

Detective Senior Constable McKerracher said police were hopeful of identifying
other co-accused and now that the two men had been arrested it was likely other
witnesses would come forward.

Magistrate John Lesser refused bail, saying Mr Reiri was an unacceptable risk of
interfering with witnesses and reoffending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); BAIL (90%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT &
BATTERY (90%); BONE FRACTURES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); MAGISTRATES
(78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); LAW
COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (75%); JAIL
SENTENCING (72%); SENTENCING (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015


                              159 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved
                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                                  May 22, 2015

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: 42 Killed in Benue, Plateau Attacks

BYLINE: Peter Duru & Marie-Therese Nanlong

DATELINE: Jos

BODY:

About 42 people were, yesterday, reportedly killed in Benue and Plateau States
during separate attacks by unknown gunmen.

Twenty seven persons were said to have been killed in some communities in Barkin
Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State while 15 others were killed at the
popular Kyado Market in Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State, bringing the
total number of those killed in the two neighbouring states to 42.

The victims in Plateau State were killed during a night attack despite the
curfew imposed on the area.

In Benue, the victims were killed Wednesday afternoon when unknown armed men
opened fire on traders at the market even as many, including children, also
sustained varying degrees of injuries at the marker popularly known for its
booming yam trade.

However, Barkin Ladi in Plateau was one of the seven local governments where
curfew was imposed but night attacks had been going on daily for about three
weeks now with many people mostly women and children being killed.

Chairman of the council, Emmanuel Loman, who confirmed the attack, yesterday,
blamed the incident on some Fulani herdsmen who he said attacked both Ninji and
Popp villages without provocation, killing 20 persons.

He said: "As I talk to you, I am at the mass burial of 27 people killed by the
Fulani and their mercenaries. The act is being perpetrated by the Fulani who
live in the communities and aided by their mercenaries. The attackers want to
make Barkin Ladi another Sambisa forest at all cost."

He, therefore, called on security operatives to be proactive as the situation
was getting out of hand.

Residents of the area and neighbouring Riyom Local Government Area had been also
under severe attack in the last three days with many residents relocating to
other areas for fear of being killed.

Also, in Makurdi, the Benue State capital, an eye witness told Vanguard that the
gunmen, who were about six in number, stormed the ever busy market located close
to Wukari, along the Benue-Taraba State border, at about 12:30pm at the peak of
trading activities

"They stormed the market in a commando manner, when business activities were at
peak at about 12:30pm, and suddenly opened fire on the traders and their
customers, most of whom were trading in tubers of yam.

"There was pandemonium everywhere, people, including children, started
scampering in different directions but unfortunately, about 13 persons were
killed by the gunmen, while many also sustained injuries.

"After the sporadic shooting which lasted about 10 minutes, the gunmen retreated
to the car they came in and drove off."

Contacted, Benue State Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Assistant
Superintendent, ASP, Austin Ezeani, confirmed the killings, saying the police
recorded the death of three persons and five cases of injuries in the incident.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); GUNSHOT
WOUNDS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POLICE FORCES (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (74%);
CURFEW (70%)

PUB-SUBJECT: Nigeria

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2015


                              160 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                        Copyright 2015 Imphal Free Press
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Imphal Free Press (India)

                              June 5, 2015 Friday

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: False Binary of Violence

DATELINE: Manipur

BODY:

anipur, June 5 -- In a devastating ambush this morning on a five-vehicle convoy
of the 6-Dogra Regiment in the Moltuk area of Chandel district of Manipur, 110
km from Tengnoupal Police Station, close to the Indo-Myanmar border, at least 17
soldiers were reported killed and 16 others injured. The soldiers who had
completed their posting at the remote Moltuk village were leaving with their
bags and baggage, and probably with home in mind rather than a gunfight, putting
themselves off guard and therefore made extremely vulnerable. The attackers
probably also had intelligence of this vulnerable moment and timed the ambush
accordingly. Claims are now beginning to come to newspaper offices, and so far
they confirm suspicions that this could have been the handiwork of the newly
formed, United Liberation Front of Western South East Asia, ULFWSEA,
constituting of a number of insurgent groups from the Northeast, under the
leadership of SS Khaplang, the chief of the National Socialist Council of
Nagaland, NSCN, faction with which the Government of India had only recently
called off its ceasefire.

Khaplang on the other hand still holds a ceasefire with the Myanmar government.
Nearly all of the insurgent groups from not just Manipur but also the entire
Northeast, now have their bases in Myanmar enjoying the safe sanctuary provided
by Khaplang. The Government of India ended its truce with Khaplang faction of
the NSCN thinking it to have been reduced to a spent force in India, and to
pursue peace with the stronger rival NSCN faction led by Isak Swu and
Thuingaleng Muivah with which it has been holding peace talks since 1997.
Today's ambush could be Khaplang's message that he can still hit back within
Indian territory in many different ways, apart from dramatically announcing the
arrival of ULFSEA.

Today's deadly ambush changed the complexion of a public outrage building up
over the killing of a woman, M Ruisoting Aimol, a 56 year old social activist
belonging to a small tribe Aimol in the Chandel district, by troops of the 20
Assam Rifles posted at Bonyang village. According to the villagers, the
soldiers, accompanied by an officer, came to the village in a white Maruti Gypsy
with some masked men at 9.45pm on May 31 and searched out the woman. They then
planted some incriminating items at her place before shooting and injuring her.
Villagers thereafter brought her to a hospital in Imphal where she succumbed to
her injury on June 2. The villagers further allege that the soldiers had also
earlier come to the village at 11.35pm on June 27 and harassed the villagers.
The news of this atrocity remained lost in the din of the hotly contested
Autonomous District Council elections in the hill districts, polling for which
was held on June 1. However after the dust of the electioneering settled, public
attention shifted back to the case of the murdered woman. The Aimol tribe called
a general strike, and several civil society bodies all over the state responded
to the call. However, no sooner did the strike begin, it was called off
following a truce brokered by the Manipur government between the aggrieved Aimol
tribe and the Assam Rifles. In Manipur's absurd theatre today, even grief and
mourning are open to bargain and negotiation. This is understandable,
considering the climate of official impunity introduced by the Armed Forces
Special Powers Act. Victims virtually have no guarantee at all that perpetrators
will be punished, so rather than lose everything, the intuition now is to
bargain for some material compensation at least. In most cases the price
demanded is a government job or cash.

Today's devastating ambush and the atrocious killing of the Aimol woman a few
days earlier, illustrate the tragedy of a violent civil strife and the dilemma
before the liberal State to come up with a liberal answer; a failure of the
moral imagination. Often, in the AFSPA debate so sensitive in the Northeast
region, the two kinds of violence are so falsely aligned on the "us versus them"
binary, making them either the justification or else a case for condemning
draconian measures of the State. The AFSPA debate thus gets reduced to the
instrumental "you hit me first" rhetoric, or that of extraordinary situations
deserving extraordinary measures. Lost in the process is the ethical question of
whether the end always justifies the means. Placing the two kinds of violence on
opposite poles is also false for one more thing. The objection to the AFSPA is
not so much to the military meeting a military challenge to the State. It is
more about making the atrocities committed under the AFSPA accountable to
democratic law. This is what the Justice Jeevan Reddy Committee's recommendation
on the AFSPA said in 2005; this is also what the Veerappa Moily Administrative
Reform Committee 2005 recommended; this is what Santosh Hegde Commission on
encounter deaths in Manipur 2013 also said. Let the AFSPA debate then not be
swayed by the immediate and instead be thrashed out on the moral plane.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Imphal Free Press. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WOUNDS &
INJURIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); MURDER (77%);
SHOOTINGS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); REGIONAL &
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); ELECTIONS (72%); POLICE FORCES
(72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANIPUR, INDIA (94%); NAGALAND, INDIA (79%) MYANMAR (94%); INDIA
(94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2015


                              161 of 161 DOCUMENTS


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 10, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1826 words

HEADLINE: A word in your eyrie: I'm back;
Hunted to extinction in Britain in 1918, the white-tailed eagle is circling in
our skies once more. We will soon have 100 breeding pairs, but not everyone is
happy, writes Peter Ross

BYLINE: Peter Ross

BODY:

Maurice Henderson is a fiddler on Fetlar (population 69), a beautiful island in
the Shetland archipelago 150 or so miles north of the Scottish mainland, and has
spent his life bringing the old music and tales of his native land to a new
global audience.

Yet he would not have existed at all had his
great-great-great-greatgreat-great-grandfather not saved his
great-great-greatgreat-great-great-grandmother from the nest of a hungry eagle,
high on sea cliffs a few miles from what is now the Henderson family croft
house.

"It was my grand-uncle who told me I was descended from the eagle's bairn," the
40-year-old says. "It's a story handed down by folk on the isle for
generations."

This is how it goes. One late summer's day in 1690 on the island of Unst, a
white-tailed eagle - a bird with an 8ft wingspan also known as the sea eagle -
swooped down to the fields where the Anderson family were gathering barley and
picked up in its scimitar talons their infant daughter Mary, who had been lying
sleeping in a woollen shawl.

The bird set off across the water to its eyrie on the neighbouring island of
Fetlar, three miles south. Mary's father William and fellow crofters set off in
pursuit, crossing the water in an old leaky boat, straining to see the black dot
in the sky. Landing on Fetlar, they made for the cliffs and, arriving above the
spot where the bird was known to nest, let down a rope 400ft above the water.

A local boy, Robert Nicolson, being light and used to climbing, volunteered to
descend to the nest. There he found Mary asleep and unharmed, the thick shawl
having protected her from hungry beaks. He gathered her to him, climbed back up
the rope and handed her to her grateful father.

Some years later, Nicolson had business on Unst and took a notion to visit the
Anderson croft to pay his respects to Mary. He found her grown into a pretty
young woman. "It was love at first sight," says Maurice Henderson, "or, as they
say, second sight." The two married and raised a family. Their descendants - the
bairns of the eagle's bairn - still live on the islands and are proud of their
ancestry.

The sea eagle has not been so fortunate in its genealogy. The last in the UK was
killed in Shetland in 1918. The female bird had lived for years without a mate
and was said to be an albino, the end of her line, a ghost even before she was
shot dead.

This story illustrates the complex and often uneasy relationship between humans
and sea eagles, a relationship that led to their dying out in Britain almost 100
years ago and to their reintroduction from Norway in the 1970s. As that grim
centenary approaches, it is thought that the milestone of there being 100
breeding pairs is about to be reached. We killed them and then we brought them
back to life.

"The sea eagle was brought to extinction through man's persecution, so it seemed
only right that we should do something to bring it back," says the naturalist
and author John Love. "Righting a wrong that had been done to it in the past."

Love, 68, was hired by the former Nature Conservancy Council in 1975 to manage
the reintroduction programme. Over the next decade he made several journeys to
Norway, where sea eagles are relatively abundant, to choose chicks in their
nests and accompany them back - in RAF Nimrods - to Scotland.

The first bird, Loki, was released on the Hebridean island of Rum on September
26, 1975. Love remembers the moment vividly, its historic weight. "I got the
same buzz every time I released one into the world," he says.

The sea eagle is Britain's biggest bird of prey. Its relationship with the
people of these isles goes back to ancient times; they may even have been sacred
to us. When the "Tomb of the Eagles", a Stone Age burial mound, was excavated in
Orkney in 1976, it was found to contain talons and skulls of sea eagles, mingled
with the bones of prehistoric humans.

Pictish symbol stones and the Book of Kells show the great hooked beak.

Anglo-Saxon poetry describes sea eagles feasting on the flesh of slain warriors.
Gaelic poetry calls it "iolaire suil na greine" - the eagle of the sunlit eye.
Those golden eyes, which now scan some of Scotland's wildest landscape, once
looked down over the whole of the British Isles.

Farmers, gamekeepers and sportsmen hastened the demise of the sea eagle. Estate
owners regarded them as vermin preying on valuable sheep and game birds, and
offered bounties for eggs and severed heads. By 1800 there were none left in
England (an attempt five years ago to reintroduce them in East Anglia failed in
the face of local opposition).

The last bird in the UK, that albino in Shetland, was photographed a few years
before its death. Blurred and grainy, it is the only picture taken of a true
native British sea eagle and there is something guilt-inducing and wraithlike
about it; a phantom accusing its killers.

Although initial reintroductions took place on Rum in 1975, 10 years passed
before breeding succeeded and a chick hatched - the first "Gaelic-speaking sea
eagle", as Love puts it, to be born in Scotland for decades. This happened on
Mull, a large island south of Rum, to which the birds had spread. It was May 4,
1985, and on the 30th anniversary Dave Sexton, a Royal Society for the
Protection of Birds officer who witnessed the hatching, leads the way down a
rough track and points out the site of the nest where new birds are raising
young. "This is where it all began," he says. "This wood should be a national
monument."

Sea eagles are protected under the Wildlife and Countryside Act, with a maximum
penalty of six months imprisonment and/or fines of up to £5,000. The Mull birds
have been targeted by egg thieves in the past; some nests are protected by
security cameras and razor wire. There are 20 nests on Mull, the exact locations
of which are kept hush-hush.

These are valuable birds from both an environmental and economic perspective.
Mull is marketed as "Eagle Island" and it is estimated that the birds attract
£5m of tourism a year. Even on a wet day the open deck of the Mull Charters boat
is busy with visitors wowing at the sea eagles swooping down to take fish from
Loch Buie.

"Is that not the most spectacular thing you've ever seen?" asks Martin Keivers,
the boat's skipper. Perhaps, but "spectacular" is not the right word. "Awesome",
in its true sense, is better. "Dreadful" would be better still. A sea eagle in
silhouette, circling 100ft above, has a heavy, oppressive, almost hostile
presence that brings to mind a bomber aircraft. You can all but hear the engine
of the Junkers.

The trick is to balance the magnetic pull these birds exert on tourists with the
need to keep them safe. An informal network of islanders observes the nests and
reports any suspicious characters to the police. Mary van Heerden, known as
"Eagle Mary", is 69 and moved to Mull from Zimbabwe 10 years ago, feeling forced
out of the country amid growing security fears. She had been the victim of an
armed robbery that left her traumatised.

She started running a B&B on Mull, but suffered periods of depression until one
day in 2007 Sexton asked her to keep an eye on a pair of eagles about to nest.
She has watched them ever since, enjoying the sound of the wind in their wings
as they fly overhead.

"After two or three hours, I come back feeling all is right with the world," she
says. "It has been a wonderful therapy. I pride myself that I've never taken
antidepressants. I've never had counselling. These eagles are better."

Not everyone regards them so positively. Many farmers on Mull would happily see
them die out once more. Sheep farming is an important part of the island's
culture and economy; lamb is part of the sea eagle diet. Between those two facts
lies anger and conflict.

"It's an escalating problem," says Lachlan MacLean, 55, the third generation of
his family to farm on Mull. "It's having a huge impact."

MacLean farms 10,000 acres and keeps 2,500 ewes. It was on his land, in 1985,
that the first sea eagle hatched. But he takes no pride in this. That beak
poking free from the egg was, for him, the beginning of a disaster. He says
there are now four nests on the farm, four on the periphery and a number of
non-nesting juveniles. "We're surrounded." Putting a number on the livestock he
loses to sea eagles is difficult, he admits, but says the losses are
significant. A lamb sells for about £60 and females are worth more than that in
subsidy. A new scheme offers financial support to farmers who have nests on
their land.

But MacLean says he is still losing money and would like bird numbers to be
somehow controlled, or for compensation to be paid by the Scottish government.

There is a feeling among farmers that these birds have been imposed on them and
- although no sea eagle on Mull has been shot since reintroduction - a sense of
envy of great-grandfathers who were not prevented by law from taking action.

There are thought to be about 50 or so sea eagles on Mull, although there are
also populations across the Hebrides, down the west coast and on the other side
of the country in Fife. It is likely that this month, or next, the 100th
breeding pair will be confirmed. "That feels like an important milestone," says
Sexton. And the future? "I would say that 250 pairs in Scotland over the next
20, 30 years is a reasonable target."

This will be music to the ears of conservationists and tourist businesses, but
for MacLean it sounds a discordant note. "They were extinct for a reason," he
says. "We were better off prior to the birds being here."

Back on Shetland, Henderson is walking along the cliffs, high above the hungry
sea. We have been to the old ruined croft where the bird is said to have lifted
the bairn and we are now on Fetlar, looking for the site of the nest. Henderson
is a member of the folk group Fiddlers' Bid and keen on the folklore of these
islands, but this is the first time he has made this pilgrimage, following the
flight of the eagle. It is an auspicious moment.

The local press is reporting the arrival of sea eagles on Orkney, to the south,
so it's only a matter of time before they are back on Shetland, the scene of
their extinction becoming a cradle of their resurrection.

He stands near the edge, looking down on the crag where he believes the nest
must have been. Strange to think if that boy long ago hadn't had the courage to
climb down a rope and rescue a baby, their descendant would not now be taking
pictures. That's if you believe the legend. Henderson does and is grateful. "I
would have missed out on a lot of fiddle tunes," he laughs.

That sea eagle almost cost him his life. We have cost the eagles theirs. Now
humans and birds must learn to live together. It is, as Sexton puts it, "an
uneasy peace" at times, but one, surely, that is worth trying to keep.

Spectacular is not the right word. Dreadful is better. A sea eagle 100ft above
has a heavy, almost hostile presence that brings to mind a bomber. You can all
but hear the engine of the Junkers

GRAPHIC: The sea eagle population is concentrated on Mull but can also be seen
in Fife and further north. Below, eaglets in their nest

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); CLIMBING (75%); GENEALOGY (70%);
INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCOTLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)
Northern Ireland

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2015
